essay for
for the
the iconference
iconference february
february march
march los
los angeles
angeles ca
ca v
v as
as of
of february
february words
ischools mice
mice roaring
roaring or
or the
the future
future is
is now
now arriving
steve sawyer
college of
of information
information sciences
sciences and
and technology
penn state
state university
howard rosenbaum
graduate school
school of
of library
library and
and information
information science
indiana university
through this
this essay
essay we
we develop
develop an
an argument
argument for
for supporting
supporting the
the growth
growth of
of ischools
ischools by
by building
on the
the literature
literature and
and concepts
concepts of
of institutions
we first
first argue
argue that
that ischools
ischools and
and the
the ischool
movement can
can be
be seen
seen as
as engaging
engaging in
in a
a process
process of
of institutionalization
that is
is they
they are
are seeking
each and
and collectively
collectively to
to become
become selfsustaining
selfsustaining and
and enduring
enduring social
social units
to support
support this
argument we
we draw
draw on
on the
the literatures
literatures regarding
regarding institutions
institutions and
and institutionalization
we do
do so
so to
help clarify
clarify what
what those
those involved
involved in
in the
the ischool
ischool movement
movement might
might need
need to
to do
do to
to encourage
encourage the
process of
of ischools
ischools becoming
becoming become
become enduring
enduring and
and selfreplicating
selfreplicating forms
forms of
of organization
organization in
in the
contemporary university
university milieu
the literature
literature on
on institutions
institutions and
and institutionalizing
institutionalizing is
is vast
active and
and multithreaded
in this
this essay
essay we
we draw
draw from
from but
but do
do not
not summarize
summarize or
or extend
extend this
we draw
draw on
on concepts
concepts from
from institutional
institutional theory
theory to
to frame
frame our
our thesis
thesis what
what can
can those
involved in
in ischools
ischools do
do to
to encourage
encourage the
the growth
growth and
and legitimization
legitimization of
of these
these scholarly
on becoming
becoming an
an institution
an institution
institution is
is a
a representation
representation of
of a
a social
social order
order or
or pattern
pattern continually
continually reproduced
reproduced which
which owes
its continued
continued existence
existence to
to relatively
relatively selfactivating
selfactivating or
or automatic
automatic social
social processes
processes scott
scott a
dimaggio powell
powell brint
brint karabel
karabel zucker
scotts comprehensive
comprehensive definition
definition of
of an
an institution
institution focuses
attention to
to the
the cognitive
cognitive normative
normative and
and regulative
regulative structures
structures and
and activities
activities which
which provide
stability and
and meaning
meaning to
to collective
collective social
social behavior
scott argues
argues that
that institutions
institutions are
the title
title is
is a
a notsosubtle
notsosubtle pointer
pointer to
to two
two entertainment
entertainment icons
the first
first is
is the
the book
book and
and movie
movie a
mouse that
that roared
roared see
see httpen
given the
the physical
physical location
location of
of the
ischool conference
conference in
in los
los angeles
angeles it
it seems
seems apropos
apropos to
to appeal
appeal to
to movies
movies and
and entertainment
entertainment for
for this
this topic
the book
book and
and movie
movie plot
plot centers
centers on
on the
the concerns
concerns and
and desires
desires of
of a
a fictional
fictional tiny
tiny european
european nation
nation the
the duchy
duchy of
grand fenwick
fenwick and
and their
their plan
plan to
to attack
attack the
the united
united states
having seen
seen the
the positive
positive effects
effects of
of losing
losing a
a war
war to
to the
united states
states and
and earning
earning reconstruction
reconstruction money
money they
they set
set off
off to
to lose
however through
through a
a series
series of
of bumbles
bumbles and
twists of
of fate
fate wonderfully
wonderfully portrayed
portrayed in
in the
the movie
movie through
through the
the comedic
comedic genius
genius of
of the
the late
late peter
peter sellers
sellers grand
fenwick defeats
defeats the
the united
united states
states by
by accidentally
accidentally gaining
gaining position
position of
of the
the qbomb
qbomb the
the most
most lethal
lethal weapon
weapon ever
the second
second notsosubtle
notsosubtle pointer
pointer embedded
embedded into
into the
the title
title is
is to
to the
the tomorrowland
tomorrowland transit
transit authority
authority ride
at disneyworlds
disneyworlds magic
magic kingdom
this ride
ride carries
carries you
you from
from the
the contemporary
contemporary world
world into
into the
the technological
technological utopia
of tomorrow
comments on
on previous
previous versions
versions by
by kristin
kristin price
price and
and three
three anonymous
anonymous reviewers
reviewers have
have helped
helped us
us to
to improve
improve the
current version
thank you
multifaceted social
social arrangements
arrangements which
which incorporate
incorporate systems
systems of
of symbols
these symbols
symbols include
the cognitive
cognitive constructions
constructions that
that reflect
reflect awareness
awareness normative
normative rules
rules that
that help
help to
to structure
structure behavior
and interaction
interaction and
and regulative
regulative processes
processes that
that are
are carried
carried out
out through
through and
and shape
shape social
social behavior
via incentives
incentives and
and constraints
moreover artifacts
artifacts can
can carry
carry symbols
symbols such
such as
as power
power and
prestige in
in the
the design
design of
of buildings
buildings and
and the
the layout
layout of
of office
office spaces
seen this
this way
way an
an institution
institution is
a set
set of
of roles
roles graded
graded in
in authority
authority that
that have
have been
been embodied
embodied in
in consistent
consistent patterns
patterns of
of actions
actions that
have been
been legitimated
legitimated and
and sanctioned
sanctioned by
by society
society or
or segments
segments of
of that
that society
society whose
whose purpose
purpose is
is to
carry out
out certain
certain activities
activities or
or prescribed
prescribed needs
needs of
of that
that society
society or
or segments
segments of
of that
that society
repeated and
and regularized
regularized social
social actions
actions becomes
becomes identifiable
identifiable as
as belonging
belonging to
to an
an institution
institution when
selfperpetuating internal
internal social
social patterns
patterns reproduce
reproduce themselves
themselves without
without the
the need
need of
of special
sustaining action
action or
or collective
collective action
action by
by its
its members
members painter
in the
the ischool
ischool context
context this
is seen
seen in
in faculty
faculty of
of different
different research
research paradigms
paradigms and
and from
from different
different scholarly
scholarly disciplines
disciplines getting
together and
and resolving
resolving their
their difference
difference to
to hire
hire tenure
tenure and
and promote
promote their
their peers
peers to
to recruit
recruit and
educate graduate
graduate students
students and
and to
to establish
establish common
common language
language regarding
regarding interdisciplines
interdisciplines and
in doing
doing this
this patterns
patterns of
of action
action emerge
emerge and
and others
others seeing
seeing this
this replicate
replicate these
patterns by
by choice
routine procedures
procedures support
support and
and sustain
sustain the
the pattern
pattern furthering
furthering its
reproduction unless
unless collective
collective action
action blocks
blocks or
or external
external shocks
shocks disrupt
disrupt the
the pattern
pattern jepperson
that is
is formation
formation is
is fragile
fragile and
and often
often disrupted
disrupted by
by failures
failures of
of some
some to
to reproduce
reproduce the
the act
or by
by outside
outside forces
forces that
that block
block reproduction
seen this
this way
way the
the ischool
ischool as
as institution
institution arises
arises out
out of
of constantly
constantly reenacted
reenacted practices
practices from
which evolve
evolve stable
stable sets
sets of
of structures
structures with
with formalized
formalized rules
rules and
and laws
these structures
structures of
of rules
laws norms
norms of
of behavior
behavior and
and collected
collected practices
practices become
become visible
visible to
to others
others and
and are
are internalized
internalized by
in turn
turn these
these individuals
individuals reinforce
reinforce the
the normative
normative and
and regulative
regulative aspects
aspects of
of an
institution through
through repetition
repetition and
and reproduction
institutions take
take many
many forms
a profession
profession or
or occupation
occupation becomes
becomes professionalized
professionalized or
institutionalized when
when they
they are
are believed
believed to
to require
require extensive
extensive formalized
formalized study
study and
and a
a mastery
mastery of
specialized knowledge
knowledge are
are autonomous
autonomous selfrestricted
selfrestricted and
and selfregulated
selfregulated and
and generally
a professional
professional institution
institution includes
includes organizational
organizational structures
structures and
and mechanisms
mechanisms for
preserving the
the knowledge
knowledge and
and the
the practices
practices of
of its
its constituents
constituents enforcing
enforcing the
the standards
standards and
educating future
future members
members of
of the
the profession
profession tseng
tseng carter
carter grebner
grebner seaman
seaman and
and foret
drawing from
from and
and combining
combining these
these we
we argue
argue here
here and
and in
in other
other writings
writings that
that a
a working
definition of
of a
a scholarly
scholarly institution
institution as
as one
one form
form of
of professional
professional institution
institution focusing
focusing on
on academic
missions and
and which
which shares
shares the
the following
following characteristics
characteristics with
with all
all institutions
automatic self
self replicating
autonomous selfregulating
structurally stable
stable possessing
possessing formalized
formalized norms
norms and
and cultures
visible having
having a
a coherent
coherent outward
outward appearance
the constituent
constituent elements
elements and
and processes
processes that
that go
go into
into forming
forming institutions
institutions are
are a
a very
very active
active area
area of
scholarship frumpkin
frumpkin and
and kaplan
most institutional
institutional research
research has
has focused
focused on
on the
the effect
see also
also sawyer
sawyer s
and tapia
tapia a
from findings
findings to
to theories
theories speculating
speculating on
on the
the future
future of
of social
informatics the
the information
information society
of institutions
institutions as
as independent
independent variables
variables at
at the
the expense
expense of
of an
an examination
examination of
of the
the determinants
determinants and
components of
of institutions
institutions and
and the
the process
process by
by which
which institutions
institutions become
become constructed
constructed remains
remains a
black box
box zucker
in contrast
contrast our
our interest
interest here
here is
is to
to institutional
institutional formation
one promising
promising approach
approach to
to understanding
understanding the
the development
development of
of institutions
institutions is
is to
to see
see it
it as
as a
structurational activity
activity drawing
drawing on
on giddens
giddens theory
theory of
of structuration
structuration e
dimaggio powell
dimaggio powell
powell scott
scott a
a barley
barley and
and tolbert
framed as
as a
structurational process
process institutionalization
institutionalization arises
arises as
as patterns
patterns of
of interaction
interaction emerge
emerge out
out of
of loosely
organized technical
technical activities
according to
to the
the tenets
tenets of
of structuration
structuration theory
theory institutions
emerge out
out of
of a
a dynamic
dynamic in
in which
which individuals
individuals are
are shaped
shaped by
by institutional
institutional forces
forces and
and then
then act
upon their
their institutionalized
institutionalized environments
environments to
to transform
transform institutional
institutional arrangements
arrangements tolbert
tolbert and
change comes
comes about
about in
in institutional
institutional environments
environments when
when some
some event
event or
development breaks
breaks the
the patterns
patterns established
established by
by previously
previously recurrent
recurrent actions
actions and
and reflexive
behavior of
of individuals
seen this
this way
way institutionalization
institutionalization is
is the
the process
process of
of these
these patterns
patterns of
interaction becoming
becoming more
more stable
in doing
doing this
this they
they serve
serve to
to infuse
infuse a
a normative
normative order
order or
or a
a set
of normative
normative values
values into
into the
the organization
organization broom
broom and
and selznik
what we
we in
in ischools
ischools can
can do
we argue
argue that
that becoming
becoming a
a scholarly
scholarly institution
institution requires
requires concerted
concerted local
local and
and collective
collective efforts
both are
are required
required because
because each
each ischool
ischool must
must pursue
pursue institutional
institutional legitimization
legitimization locally
collectively these
these ischools
ischools must
must also
also establish
establish a
a collective
collective institutional
institutional presence
both of
of these
efforts must
must focus
focus on
on institutional
institutional growth
growth and
and maturity
maturity relative
relative to
to becoming
becoming self
self replicating
selfregulating structurally
structurally stable
stable and
and visible
selfreplicating and
and selfregulating
selfregulating mean
mean that
that new
ischools are
are started
started and
and that
that there
there is
is some
some coherence
coherence of
of identity
identity across
across the
the organizational
organizational units
who claim
claim to
to be
be ischools
ischools and
and that
that all
all ischools
ischools collectively
collectively have
have a
a coherent
coherent set
set of
of criteria
criteria for
belonging or
or not
by structurally
structurally stable
stable we
we mean
mean that
that ischools
ischools possess
possess formalized
formalized norms
norms and
regulative activities
activities such
such as
as rules
rules of
of local
local and
and collective
collective membership
membership and
and some
some common
common bodies
of knowledge
by visible
visible we
we mean
mean that
that ischools
ischools have
have a
a coherent
coherent outward
outward appearance
appearance others
can distinguish
distinguish that
that a
a particular
particular academic
academic unit
unit is
is or
or is
is not
not an
an ischool
visibility also
also demands
that ischools
ischools collectively
collectively can
can be
be discerned
discerned as
as a
a distinct
distinct academic
academic form
in the
the rest
rest of
of the
the essay
we raise
raise issues
issues and
and opportunities
opportunities relative
relative to
to each
each of
of these
these five
five characteristics
characteristics of
of a
a scholarly
pursuing self
self replication
replication to
to achieve
achieve this
this requires
requires both
both a
a growth
growth in
in the
the number
number of
of ischool
programs and
and the
the development
development and
and formalization
formalization of
of shared
shared structures
structures and
and norms
activities suggest
suggest this
this is
is ongoing
ongoing for
for example
example there
there are
are three
three mechanisms
mechanisms that
that bring
bring together
together the
ischool leaders
leaders and
and faculty
the first
first is
is the
the iconference
iconference which
which is
is currently
currently the
the only
communitywide endeavor
endeavor that
that engages
engages students
students faculty
faculty and
and administrative
administrative leadership
other two
two the
the selfselected
selfselected and
and independent
independent ischool
ischool caucus
caucus and
and the
the computing
computing research
association cra
cra sponsored
sponsored it
it deans
deans groups
groups provide
provide senior
senior administrators
administrators of
of ischools
and units
units with
with similarities
similarities to
to ischools
ischools with
with forums
forums to
to share
share structures
structures and
and develop
develop common
norms at
at the
the most
most senior
senior administrative
administrative level
one outgrowth
outgrowth of
of this
this is
is the
the rise
rise in
in meetings
meetings of
other senior
senior academic
academic and
and administrative
administrative staff
staff such
such as
as research
research deans
deans communications
communications and
various common
common degree
degree programs
there are
are at
at least
least two
two aspects
aspects of
of self
self replication
replication that
that deserve
deserve additional
additional attention
the first
first is
active encouragement
encouragement towards
towards faculty
faculty and
and academic
academic leadership
leadership of
of other
other universities
universities to
to consider
starting or
or developing
developing ischools
there are
are likely
likely a
a limited
limited number
number of
of universities
universities considering
starting from
from scratch
scratch new
new ischool
ischool programs
and there
there are
are relatively
relatively few
few programs
programs whose
histories are
are centered
centered in
in library
library and
and information
information science
science who
who have
have not
not begun
begun to
to transit
transit towards
ischoollike programs
since these
these two
two paths
paths are
are where
where most
most of
of the
the existing
existing ischools
ischools drew
from new
new sources
sources of
of growth
growth are
are needed
the most
most likely
likely pathway
pathway for
for this
this is
is to
to engage
colleagues in
in scholarly
scholarly fields
fields such
such as
as communications
communications and
and computing
computing to
to consider
consider becoming
more ilike
other possibilities
possibilities are
are to
to draw
draw information
information systems
systems scholars
scholars from
from business
schools as
as some
some senior
senior scholars
scholars in
in this
this area
area are
are advocating
advocating e
avison and
and eindor
the second
second aspect
aspect of
of selfreplication
selfreplication deserving
deserving more
more attention
attention is
is the
the development
development of
of common
structures and
and norms
norms elements
elements of
of a
a shared
shared culture
again there
there is
is some
some progress
progress at
at an
informal level
for example
example many
many of
of the
the current
current ischools
ischools and
and particularly
particularly those
those who
who have
histories in
in library
library and
and information
information science
science have
have a
a strong
strong humanistic
humanistic and
and informational
other currently
currently selfidentified
selfidentified ischools
ischools however
however do
do not
not have
have these
these norms
norms as
still others
others are
are developing
developing unique
unique sets
sets of
of norms
the various
various mechanisms
mechanisms for
having ischool
ischool faculty
faculty and
and administrative
administrative leadership
leadership get
get together
together provides
provides for
for one
one means
means to
share and
and develop
develop common
common structures
increasingly however
however this
this attention
attention should
should be
be focusing
on ensuring
ensuring that
that these
these structures
structures and
and norms
norms are
are part
part of
of the
the undergraduate
undergraduate and
and graduate
graduate training
and education
and for
for institutional
institutional legitimization
legitimization in
in the
the academy
academy graduate
graduate students
students are
are often
seen as
as the
the carriers
carriers of
of common
common structures
structures and
and norms
pursuing selfregulation
selfregulation autonomy
autonomy in
in a
a multidisciplinary
multidisciplinary space
space is
is one
one of
of balance
to maintain
multidisciplinarity demands
demands both
both development
development of
of a
a common
common core
core of
of knowledge
knowledge while
while retaining
strong ties
ties to
to the
the reference
reference or
or contributing
contributing scholarly
scholarly disciplines
without a
a common
common core
core the
space is
is ephemeral
ephemeral a
a collection
collection of
of local
local and
and informal
informal interactions
interactions with
with no
no permanence
without strong
strong connection
connection to
to reference
reference disciplines
disciplines the
the space
space becomes
becomes an
an orphan
orphan and
and is
is too
easily ignored
there are
are at
at least
least three
three opportunities
opportunities before
before ischool
ischool members
members to
to increase
increase the
the level
level of
of selfregulation
the first
first is
is to
to make
make explicit
explicit a
a focus
focus on
on building
building ischool
ischool faculties
faculties whose
whose intellectual
heritage combines
combines both
both scholarly
scholarly training
training from
from outside
outside ischools
ischools with
with an
an equal
equal commitment
commitment to
hiring ischooltrained
ischooltrained students
students as
as faculty
this dual
dual strategy
strategy provides
provides a
a means
means to
to keep
keep the
the ischools
ischools connected
connected to
to relevant
relevant scholarly
scholarly disciplines
disciplines even
even as
as they
they develop
develop a
a core
core interdisciplinary
too much
much focus
focus on
on internaltoischoolsfacultyhires
internaltoischoolsfacultyhires might
might lead
lead to
to where
where the
collection of
of schools
schools becomes
becomes selfreferential
selfreferential disconnected
disconnected from
from disciplines
disciplines and
and ignored
great a
a focus
focus on
on hiring
hiring primarily
primarily from
from referent
referent disciplines
disciplines might
might lead
lead to
to where
where no
no sustaining
crossdisciplinary interconnections
interconnections form
second it
it is
is important
important to
to ensure
ensure that
that ischooltrained
ischooltrained graduate
graduate students
students secure
secure and
and succeed
succeed in
faculty positions
positions in
in the
the reference
reference or
or contributing
contributing scholarly
scholarly disciplines
if this
this does
does not
not happen
then the
the special
special sauce
sauce of
of interdisciplinary
interdisciplinary scholarly
scholarly development
development that
that ischools
ischools advocate
advocate is
is a
core competency
competency becomes
becomes moot
moot through
through nonconsumption
third there
there should
should be
be more
more effort
effort to
to develop
develop future
future administrative
administrative leaders
leaders from
from within
within ischools
currently this
this is
is hard
hard given
given the
the limited
limited numbers
numbers of
of ischool
ischool faculty
faculty and
and the
the limited
opportunities for
for ischool
ischool faculty
faculty to
to gain
gain administrative
administrative experience
experience there
there are
are few
few departments
departments in
the few
few programs
programs and
and few
few associate
associate dean
dean positions
positions meaning
meaning it
it is
is relatively
relatively difficult
difficult to
to develop
internaltoischool candidate
candidate pools
one possibility
possibility is
is to
to begin
begin holding
holding a
a summer
summer institute
institute for
faculty who
who are
are interested
interested in
in pursuing
pursuing ischool
ischool administration
this institute
institute provides
provides a
a means
for faculty
faculty from
from outside
outside ischools
ischools to
to learn
learn more
more about
about these
these scholarly
scholarly institutions
doing this
provides a
a means
means to
to increase
increase the
the pool
pool of
of possible
possible leaders
leaders expand
expand the
the scale
scale and
and support
support selfreplication
selfreplication activities
activities and
and also
also to
to export
export ischool
ischool ideas
pursuing structural
structural stability
stability structural
structural stability
stability reflects
reflects both
both a
a commitment
commitment by
by members
members to
pursue collectively
collectively a
a common
common set
set of
of core
core issues
issues and
and to
to be
be rewarded
rewarded for
for doing
doing so
for ischools
this translates
translates into
into developing
developing the
the formal
formal and
and informal
informal norms
norms that
that recognize
recognize and
and reward
reward faculty
for both
both maintaining
maintaining a
a strong
strong connection
connection to
to research
research communities
communities that
that extend
extend beyond
beyond ischools
into reference
reference or
or contributing
contributing academic
academic disciplines
disciplines while
while also
also supporting
supporting faculty
faculty for
for engaging
more directly
directly particularly
particularly with
with colleagues
colleagues at
at their
their home
home institution
institution in
in disciplinecrossing
these norms
norms and
and incentives
incentives must
must be
be reflected
reflected in
in the
the hiring
hiring tenure
tenure promotion
promotion and
meritreview processes
processes of
of faculty
pursuing visibility
visibility visibility
visibility means
means having
having a
a coherent
coherent outward
outward appearance
this has
has been
been the
focus of
of the
the ischool
ischool caucus
caucus and
and academic
academic leadership
leadership and
and should
should be
be a
a continued
continued focus
there is
also evidence
evidence that
that faculty
faculty are
are beginning
beginning to
to help
help make
make ischools
ischools more
more visible
for example
example the
ischools and
and ischool
ischool faculty
faculty are
are very
very involved
involved in
in the
the research
research fields
fields of
of humancomputer
interaction hci
hci participatory
participatory design
design computersupported
computersupported cooperative
cooperative work
work and
and social
informatics research
research communities
this involvement
involvement leads
leads to
to where
where others
others in
in these
these research
communities and
and particularly
particularly younger
younger faculty
faculty and
and graduate
graduate students
students see
see ischools
ischools as
as a
a viable
viable if
not preferred
preferred choice
choice for
for an
an academic
academic home
the evidence
evidence suggests
suggests that
that ischool
ischool faculty
faculty and
and administrative
administrative leadership
leadership are
are making
making steps
towards becoming
becoming a
a scholarly
scholarly institution
the need
need for
for collective
collective action
action to
to be
be focused
focused and
and to
pursue the
the efforts
efforts needed
needed to
to ensure
ensure institutionalization
institutionalization benefit
benefit all
all of
of us
these actions
actions also
demand our
our time
time and
and attention
avison d
eindor p
diversity in
in is
is research
research and
and practice
practice proceedings
proceedings of
of the
international conference
conference on
on information
information systems
systems montreal
montreal canada
canada acm
acm press
brint s
karabel j
institutional origins
origins and
and transformations
transformations the
the case
case of
of american
community colleges
colleges in
in the
the new
new institutionalism
institutionalism in
in organizational
organizational analysis
analysis ed
walter w
powell and
and paul
paul j
chicago university
university of
of chicago
chicago press
barley s
tolbert p
institutionalization as
as structuration
structuration methods
methods and
and analytic
strategies for
for studying
studying links
links between
between action
action and
and structure
structure organization
organization studies
broom l
selznik p
sociology row
row peterson
peterson and
and company
company evanston
evanston il
carter m
grebner f
seaman j
foret c
occupation to
to profession
profession continuum
continuum status
status and
and future
future of
of aahperd
journal of
of physical
physical education
education recreation
recreation and
and dance
dimaggio p
powell w
introduction in
in the
the new
new institutionalism
institutionalism in
in organizational
powell and
and p
chicago university
university of
of chicago
chicago press
dimaggio p
powell w
the iron
iron cage
cage revisited
revisited institutional
institutional isomorphism
isomorphism and
collective rationality
rationality in
in organizational
organizational fields
fields in
in the
the new
new institutionalism
institutionalism in
organizational analysis
powell and
and p
chicago university
university of
chicago press
jepperson r
institutions institutional
institutional effects
effects and
and institutionalism
institutionalism in
in the
the new
institutionalism in
in organizational
organizational analysis
powell p
chicago university
university of
of chicago
chicago press
mills c
the sociological
sociological imagination
imagination oxford
oxford university
university press
press london
painter c
early leader
leader effects
effects on
on the
the process
process of
of institutionalization
institutionalization through
through cultural
embedding the
the cases
cases of
of william
william j
donovan allen
allen w
dulles and
and j
edgar hoover
unpublished dissertation
virginia polytechnic
polytechnic institute
institute and
and state
state university
institutions and
and organizations
organizations toward
toward a
a theoretical
theoretical synthesis
synthesis in
in institutional
environments and
and organizations
organizations structural
structural complexity
complexity and
and individualism
scott j
meyer et
thousand oaks
oaks ca
ca sage
sage publications
scott w
introduction institutional
institutional theory
theory and
and organizations
organizations in
in the
the institutional
construction of
of organizations
organizations international
international and
and longitudinal
longitudinal studies
scott and
and s
christensen xixxiii
thousand oaks
oaks ca
ca sage
sage publications
scott w
institutions and
and organizations
thousand oaks
oaks ca
ca sage
tseng j
interpreting as
as an
an emerging
emerging profession
profession in
in taiwan
taiwan a
a sociological
sociological model
unpublished manuscript
manuscript fu
fu jen
jen catholic
catholic university
university taiwan
zucker l
the role
role of
of institutionalization
institutionalization in
in cultural
cultural persistence
persistence american
sociological review
organizations as
as institutions
institutions in
in samuel
samuel b
bacharach ed
research in
in the
sociology of
of organizations
greenwich ct
ct jai
jai press
institutional theories
theories of
of organizations
organizations annual
annual review
review of
of sociology
zucker l
where do
do institutional
institutional patterns
patterns come
come from
from in
in institutional
institutional patterns
patterns and
cambridge mass
mass ballinger
