just me
me in
in a
a closet
closet with
with a
a computer
student perceptions
perceptions of
of undergraduate
undergraduate information
information technology
technology programs
heekyung choi
university of
of illinois
illinois at
at urbanachampaign
daniel st
champaign il
many institutions
institutions of
of higher
higher education
education in
in the
the us
us are
are offering
offering an
information technology
technology it
it education
education program
program at
at an
an undergraduate
undergraduate level
so far
far not
not many
many studies
studies about
about this
this young
young academic
academic program
program have
have explored
students perspectives
students perspectives
perspectives are
are important
important input
for educators
educators to
to implement
implement an
an it
it education
education program
program that
that properly
addresses students
students needs
this study
study has
has investigated
investigated college
students perceptions
perceptions and
and expectations
expectations for
for formal
formal it
it education
education in
college through
through indepth
indepth qualitative
qualitative interviews
interviewees were
college students
students who
who were
were enrolled
enrolled in
in courses
courses offered
offered from
from an
an it
it minor
this study
study has
has revealed
revealed that
that many
many college
college students
students feel
feel that
there is
is a
a void
void in
in college
college education
education in
in dealing
dealing with
with issues
issues emerging
from recent
recent developments
developments of
of it
the interviewees
interviewees indicated
indicated that
that the
existing computer
computer science
science program
program did
did not
not satisfy
satisfy their
their needs
perceived that
that it
it is
is something
something that
that they
they would
would have
have to
to confront
confront in
in their
future and
and sought
sought it
it education
education regardless
regardless of
of their
their fondness
fondness for
for using
and learning
learning it
by taking
taking the
the it
it minor
minor students
students tried
tried to
to supplement
their knowledge
knowledge in
in their
their major
major and
and be
be better
better prepared
prepared for
for the
the fields
that they
they would
would pursue
pursue after
after graduation
nature and
and scope
scope of
of ischools
ischools and
and iresearch
it education
education it
it learning
learning it
it minor
minor computer
computer science
science programming
informatics student
student perceptions
copyright and
and disclaimer
disclaimer information
the copyright
copyright of
of this
this document
document remains
remains with
with the
the authors
authors andor
andor their
by submitting
submitting their
their papers
papers to
to the
the ischools
ischools conference
web site
site the
the authors
authors hereby
hereby grant
grant a
a nonexclusive
nonexclusive license
license for
for the
ischools to
to post
post and
and disseminate
disseminate their
their papers
papers on
on its
its web
web site
site and
and any
other electronic
electronic media
contact the
the authors
authors directly
directly for
for any
any use
use outside
of downloading
downloading and
and referencing
referencing this
this paper
neither the
the ischools
ischools nor
nor any
of its
its associated
associated universities
universities endorse
endorse this
this work
the authors
authors are
are solely
responsible for
for their
their papers
papers content
our thanks
thanks to
to the
the association
for computing
computing machinery
machinery for
for permission
permission to
to adapt
adapt and
and use
use their
their template
for the
the ischools
ischools conference
recently a
a number
number of
of new
new information
information technology
technology it
it education
education programs
have emerged
emerged in
in u
colleges and
and universities
universities in
in addition
addition to
to the
traditional computerrelated
computerrelated education
education programs
the new
new it
it programs
programs are
being identified
identified with
with titles
titles such
such as
as information
information science
science information
systems information
information technology
technology or
or informatics
these programs
programs have
been developed
developed on
on the
the basis
basis that
that there
there is
is a
a niche
niche between
between it
it and
and the
contexts in
in which
which the
the technologies
technologies are
are situated
situated in
in terms
terms of
of both
further research
research and
and teaching
many of
of these
these it
it programs
programs are
are providing
it education
education at
at an
an undergraduate
undergraduate level
level either
either as
as a
a major
major or
or as
as a
a minor
while the
the it
it programs
programs in
in colleges
colleges have
have been
been gaining
gaining popularity
popularity the
identity of
of the
the it
it programs
programs still
still remains
remains fuzzy
fuzzy and
and the
the nature
nature and
scope of
of it
it education
education are
are still
still being
being debated
debated intensively
one reason
may be
be that
that the
the new
new area
area of
of study
study is
is still
still young
young and
and the
the existing
studies have
have not
not had
had enough
enough time
time to
to sufficiently
sufficiently integrate
integrate multiple
perspectives from
from various
various stakeholders
stakeholders of
of collegelevel
collegelevel it
it education
one of
of the
the most
most important
important stakeholder
stakeholder groups
groups in
in the
the emerging
emerging it
education programs
programs is
is college
college students
however most
most previous
previous studies
have rarely
rarely examined
examined what
what expectations
expectations and
and concerns
concerns students
students have
regarding it
it education
instead they
they have
have discussed
discussed educators
educators and
program administrators
administrators concerns
concerns in
in developing
developing and
and administering
administering an
an it
therefore this
this study
study proposes
proposes to
to shift
shift attention
attention from
from the
perspectives of
of program
program developers
developers to
to the
the perspectives
perspectives of
of college
students to
to get
get a
a better
better understanding
understanding of
of college
college level
level it
it education
the big
big research
research question
question that
that guides
guides this
this study
study is
is formulated
formulated as
what are
are college
college students
students perceptions
perceptions and
and expectations
expectations for
for an
an it
education program
by investigating
investigating students
students perspectives
perspectives this
this study
study eventually
eventually aims
aims to
help educators
educators answer
answer the
the questions
questions regarding
regarding the
the identity
identity of
of the
collegelevel it
it education
education programs
related studies
college students
students the
the itsavvy
itsavvy new
new generation
in a
a large
large body
body of
of literature
literature younger
younger generation
generation people
people are
are typically
described as
as more
more techsavvy
techsavvy than
than older
older generation
generation people
the digital
divide literature
literature has
has long
long been
been discussing
discussing the
the inequality
inequality that
that exists
exists in
peoples access
access to
to it
it points
points out
out that
that peoples
peoples age
age and
and education
level are
are two
two important
important factors
factors that
that make
make a
a big
big difference
difference in
in their
access to
to it
it e
national telecommunications
telecommunications and
and information
administration hargittai
hargittai and
and hinnant
college students
students are
considered to
to be
be a
a group
group of
of people
people who
who have
have the
the most
most access
access to
information technologies
technologies as
as they
they belong
belong to
to the
the younger
younger generation
generation that
has grown
grown up
up with
with it
it and
and is
is receiving
receiving higher
higher education
education that
that often
often goes
together with
with intensive
intensive use
use of
of it
spontaneous learning
a significant
significant improvement
improvement brought
brought by
by the
the development
development of
of userfriendly
information technologies
technologies is
is that
that those
those technologies
technologies have
have become
become easier
to learn
nielson a
a usability
usability consultant
consultant points
points out
out that
learnability the
the ease
ease of
of initial
initial learning
learning is
is one
one of
of the
the top
top attributes
in any
any good
good useroriented
useroriented system
one consequence
consequence of
of the
the enhanced
learnability is
is that
that user
user spontaneous
spontaneous learning
learning is
is greatly
greatly encouraged
many people
people acquire
acquire it
it skills
skills and
and knowledge
knowledge spontaneously
spontaneously through
informal learning
learning embedded
embedded in
in their
their daily
daily activities
activities rather
rather than
through formal
formal training
training or
or written
written manuals
in contemplating
contemplating how
how people
people learn
learn to
to use
use computers
computers twidale
twidale pays
special attention
attention to
to users
users informal
informal help
help giving
giving interactions
interactions that
that are
frequently observed
observed in
in workplaces
his idea
idea of
of overtheshoulder
learning draws
draws on
on education
education theories
theories that
that students
students learn
learn cognitive
skills most
most effectively
effectively through
through informal
informal spontaneous
spontaneous learning
opportunities embedded
embedded in
in natural
natural classroom
classroom settings
according to
to these
theories interaction
interaction within
within peer
peer relationships
relationships is
is essential
essential when
students learn
learn complex
complex cognitive
cognitive skills
skills e
vygotsky rogoff
other researchers
researchers such
such as
as spliter
spliter also
also point
point out
out that
that a
critical part
part of
of it
it learning
learning usually
usually occurs
occurs in
in users
users social
interaction with
with peers
peers rather
rather than
than through
through formal
formal training
the place
place for
for formal
formal it
it education
education in
in college
as discussed
discussed above
above college
college students
students are
are very
very active
active users
users of
of it
it and
they acquire
acquire it
it competency
competency spontaneously
spontaneously in
in their
their daily
daily lives
lives rather
than through
through any
any formal
formal training
previous studies
studies suggest
suggest that
that the
immediate value
value that
that learners
learners attach
attach to
to learning
learning computers
computers should
should be
considered in
in thinking
thinking about
about it
it education
facer sutherland
sutherland furlong
and furlong
furlong point
point out
out that
that there
there is
is a
a fundamental
fundamental gap
gap between
between the
reason that
that educators
educators and
and parents
parents place
place emphasis
emphasis on
on computer
computer education
and the
the reason
reason that
that children
children value
value computer
computer expertise
they argue
argue that
while policy
policy makers
makers and
and parents
parents tend
tend to
to view
view computer
computer skills
skills in
in terms
terms of
the childrens
childrens adaptability
adaptability to
to the
the future
future world
world of
of work
work the
the actual
reason that
that young
young children
children value
value it
it expertise
expertise is
is that
that obtaining
obtaining the
expertise is
is instrumental
instrumental in
in shaping
shaping their
their identity
identity among
among their
their peer
college students
students have
have different
different values
values from
from those
those of
of young
young children
children who
are the
the target
target of
of facer
facer et
et al
college students
students are
situated in
in a
a transitioning
transitioning period
period from
from education
education to
to the
the real
therefore college
college years
years are
are the
the time
time when
when careerrelated
decisions are
are important
important to
to students
developmental psychologist
psychologist smolak
argues that
that occupationrelated
occupationrelated values
values are
are a
a significant
significant part
part of
college students
students identity
identity formation
it implies
implies that
that the
the reason
reason that
college students
students seek
seek formal
formal it
it education
education may
may be
be closely
closely related
related to
their careerrelated
careerrelated issues
also many
many related
related studies
studies have
have focused
focused on
computer skills
skills rather
rather than
than on
on broad
broad it
it education
education which
which includes
includes many
conceptual parts
parts of
of it
it knowledge
knowledge other
other than
than just
just computer
computer skills
if college
college students
students are
are generally
generally savvy
savvy with
with information
information technologies
and they
they acquire
acquire it
it competency
competency more
more through
through informal
informal paths
paths then
then what
would be
be the
the place
place for
for formal
formal it
it education
education for
for them
them what
what do
do they
they think
they are
are not
not good
good at
at and
and what
what causes
causes them
them to
to consider
consider formal
formal it
as the
the development
development of
of the
the collegelevel
collegelevel it
it programs
programs is
is a
a new
new phenomenon
and students
students perceptions
perceptions on
on these
these programs
programs have
have rarely
rarely been
been studied
there is
is no
no strong
strong theoretical
theoretical framework
framework that
that can
can guide
guide this
this study
study to
answer the
the research
research question
this lack
lack of
of a
a strong
strong research
research framework
requires some
some exploratory
exploratory research
research that
that identifies
identifies the
the major
major issues
in this
this study
study this
this exploratory
exploratory research
research was
was performed
performed through
qualitative indepth
indepth interviewing
interviewing with
with college
college students
interview participants
participants were
were college
college students
students who
who were
were enrolled
enrolled in
in one
one or
more courses
courses in
in the
the it
it minor
minor program
program in
in a
a large
large midwestern
midwestern university
the purposive
purposive sampling
sampling method
method has
has been
been adopted
adopted to
to obtain
obtain participants
from various
various majors
enrollment in
in an
an it
it class
class was
was taken
taken as
as an
indication of
of students
students interest
interest in
in it
it education
a total
total of
students from
from the
the following
following majors
majors were
were interviewed
interviewed english
english history
advertising sociology
sociology business
business administration
administration computer
computer science
computer engineering
engineering chemical
chemical engineering
engineering etc
interviewees included
male students
students and
and female
female students
sophomores juniors
juniors and
senior students
students were
were interviewed
there were
were no
no freshman
freshman students
students as
the it
it classes
classes require
require sophomore
sophomore standing
for confidentiality
pseudonyms were
were used
used to
to identify
identify the
the interview
interview participants
participants throughout
the study
interviews were
were performed
performed during
during the
the spring
spring and
and fall
students in
in the
the it
it classes
classes were
were given
given a
a brief
brief introduction
introduction to
the study
study and
and asked
asked to
to sign
sign up
up for
for an
an interview
interview session
each interview
session lasted
lasted about
about an
an hour
the interviews
interviews were
were conducted
conducted in
in a
semistructured format
the semistructured
semistructured format
format allowed
allowed the
interviewer to
to adjust
adjust interview
interview questions
questions flexibly
flexibly to
to get
get indepth
understanding of
of each
each interviewees
interviewees experiences
experiences with
with it
it and
and meanings
that they
they attach
attach to
to it
it education
major interests
interests in
in it
it education
from the
the interview
interview data
data three
three major
major areas
areas of
of interest
interest that
that college
students have
have about
about it
it education
education were
were identified
learning practical
practical handson
handson it
it skills
the interview
interview data
data revealed
revealed that
that one
one big
big interest
interest that
that college
college students
have regarding
regarding it
it education
education is
is learning
learning practical
practical handson
handson it
it skills
broadly means
means any
any type
type of
of digital
digital technology
technology that
that processes
processes information
but to
to students
students it
it in
in the
the context
context of
of college
college education
education primarily
primarily means
computers rather
rather than
than other
other popular
popular consumer
consumer it
it devices
devices such
such as
as cell
phones and
and music
music players
it seems
seems that
that their
their interest
interest in
in personal
computers is
is related
related to
to creating
creating practical
practical digital
digital artifacts
artifacts on
on their
these digital
digital artifacts
artifacts include
include their
their personal
personal web
web pages
portfolios for
for jobs
jobs and
and tools
tools to
to support
support the
the groups
groups that
that they
they belong
emily a
a psychology
psychology student
student expressed
expressed how
how excited
excited she
she was
was when
when she
learned some
some practical
practical handson
handson it
it skills
skills from
from an
an it
it class
emily the
the things
things that
that we
we created
created in
in the
the class
class it
it was
was something
something that
actually worked
worked and
and could
could actually
actually be
be used
we created
created things
things that
that i
feel that
that we
we accomplished
accomplished something
something which
which is
is kind
kind of
of cool
creating something
something on
on computers
computers usually
usually involves
involves programming
students clearly
clearly indicated
indicated that
that what
what they
they are
are interested
interested in
in is
is not
not the
programming per
per se
se which
which cs
cs people
people would
would do
their interest
interest in
programming is
is limited
limited to
to some
some types
types of
of web
web programming
programming that
that are
are needed
to make
make their
their own
own stuff
interests in
in learning
learning practical
practical handson
handson it
it skills
learning about
about social
social implications
implications of
of it
students also
also showed
showed interest
interest in
in learning
learning about
about implications
implications of
of it
it use
on people
people and
and society
they are
are interested
interested in
in learning
learning how
how people
people use
it and
and what
what implications
implications it
it use
use has
has for
for society
society but
but not
not necessarily
interested in
in using
using it
it products
products proficiently
proficiently or
or learning
learning handson
handson it
two students
students from
from english
english and
and business
business respectively
respectively described
their interest
interest in
in learning
learning the
the social
social implications
implications of
of it
it implementation
jenna my
my expectations
expectations were
were not
not so
so much
much relating
relating it
it classes
classes to
to technical
stuffbut more
more relating
relating it
it to
to culture
culture and
and current
current events
events more
more like
how the
the computers
computers have
have evolved
all i
i really
really thought
thought about
about it
it was
was i
didnt really
really think
think it
it would
would be
be too
too technical
rachel ive
ive always
always liked
liked learning
learning about
about technologies
technologies and
and liked
liked how
people use
use it
it and
and how
how it
it affects
affects people
i dont
dont necessarily
necessarily like
using technology
technology itself
i took
took a
a class
class last
last semester
it was
was a
communications class
class and
and it
it was
was a
a lot
lot about
about tv
tv internet
internet and
and different
types of
of media
media and
and how
how they
they affect
affect society
society and
and different
different groups
groups and
different stereotypes
i thought
thought it
it was
was interesting
so i
i thought
thought that
the it
it minor
minor is
is fairly
fairly similar
similar to
to that
these comments
comments indicate
indicate that
that even
even students
students who
who are
are not
not very
very active
active in
using it
it products
products feel
feel the
the need
need for
for some
some kind
kind of
of it
it education
focus on
on the
the impact
impact of
of it
it is
is clearly
clearly different
different from
from the
the focus
focus of
of the
established approaches
approaches of
of cs
cs or
or other
other engineering
engineering fields
interest in
in humancomputer
humancomputer interaction
humancomputer interaction
interaction hci
hci is
is another
another area
area that
that many
many students
showed interest
interest in
in regarding
regarding it
it education
chris a
a philosophy
philosophy major
focuses on
on computers
computers less
less as
as technologies
technologies but
but more
more as
as peoples
peoples tools
for communicating
chris i
i am
am more
more interested
interested in
in computing
computing as
as interaction
interaction less
less than
computing as
as a
a goal
goal and
and end
end itself
if people
people are
are interested
interested in
in studying
how people
people interact
interact with
with computers
computers how
how computers
computers shape
shape their
their lives
lives the
it program
program is
is an
an ideal
ideal place
place to
to investigate
investigate some
some of
of that
that knowledge
students perceive
perceive hci
hci as
as an
an important
important issue
issue to
to pursue
pursue in
in higher
education because
because it
it is
is related
related to
to many
many current
current changes
changes in
in society
jack that
that class
class design
design information
information interfaces
interfaces was
was very
very helpful
because i
i think
think a
a lot
lot of
of things
things are
are either
either on
on the
the web
web right
right now
now or
or going
in that
that direction
i think
think usability
usability is
is really
really important
important because
because ive
been on
on so
so many
many websites
websites not
not being
being able
able to
to find
find a
a button
button or
or not
not knowing
where to
to click
click and
and thats
thats one
one of
of the
the big
big issues
issues it
it just
just does
does not
allow people
people design
design for
for usability
some students
students also
also view
view hci
hci as
as a
a gateway
gateway through
through which
which nontechnical
students can
can get
get into
into the
the study
study of
of it
jenna because
because i
i am
am not
not really
really very
very experienced
experienced with
with computers
computers i
i asked
the it
it advisor
advisor what
what classes
classes would
would be
be less
less technical
technical and
and more
more underlines
of computers
computers and
and culture
culture human
human interaction
interaction with
with computers
it seems
seems that
that hci
hci is
is a
a major
major area
area of
of it
it education
by hci
hci students
students mean
not a
a narrowly
narrowly defined
defined subarea
subarea of
of it
it but
but rather
rather peoples
peoples interaction
with computers
computers in
in a
a broad
broad sense
patterns found
found among
among the
the major
major interests
interesting patterns
patterns were
were found
found among
among the
the major
major interests
the first
first two
interests interest
interest in
in learning
learning handson
handson it
it skills
skills and
and interest
interest in
learning social
social implications
implications tended
tended to
to be
be negatively
negatively correlated
who were
were more
more interested
interested in
in acquiring
acquiring practical
practical handson
handson computing
computing stuff
tended to
to be
be less
less interested
interested in
in discussing
discussing social
social implications
implications of
of it
those who
who showed
showed more
more interest
interest in
in learning
learning about
about social
social implications
implications of
it tended
tended to
to be
be less
less interested
interested in
in learning
learning technical
technical stuff
also some
common underlying
underlying interests
interests were
were found
found in
in all
all three
three interests
most of
of the
the students
students showed
showed interested
interested in
in the
the practical
practical aspects
aspects of
of it
second all
all the
the three
three interests
interests were
were focused
focused around
userlevel issues
issues students
students take
take it
it classes
classes to
to learn
learn to
to make
make their
websites to
to make
make their
their own
own portfolio
portfolio to
to conduct
conduct their
their group
group project
or to
to learn
learn how
how it
it implementation
implementation affects
affects endusers
endusers like
like themselves
i am
am not
not good
good at
at computers
computers conflicting
conflicting attitude
attitude towards
towards their
their it
many students
students had
had conflicting
conflicting attitudes
attitudes regarding
regarding their
their it
it competency
while they
they said
said they
they use
use it
it all
all the
the time
time for
for their
their school
school work
work and
socializing purposes
purposes many
many of
of them
them rated
rated their
their overall
overall competency
competency in
using it
it not
not very
very high
high with
with a
a comment
comment like
like i
i am
am not
not good
good at
it seems
seems that
that their
their intensive
intensive use
use of
of computers
computers for
for school
work and
and social
social purposes
purposes does
does not
not count
count as
as it
it competency
competency for
for them
a lot
of times
times the
the feeling
feeling of
of incompetence
incompetence came
came from
from their
their inability
inability to
to do
jack technology
technology i
i do
do utilize
utilize it
it a
a lot
i think
think im
im pretty
pretty familiar
with a
a lot
lot of
of the
the it
it technology
technology in
in terms
terms of
of the
the social
social use
use utilizing
different technologies
the one
one thing
thing that
that i
i dont
dont feel
feel comfortable
with is
is the
the coding
coding itself
it is
is noteworthy
noteworthy that
that students
students did
did not
not describe
describe their
their it
it competency
competency as
as a
standalone technical
technical skill
skill without
without a
a context
most times
times students
described their
their it
it competency
competency in
in relation
relation to
to some
some area
area expertise
example a
a journalism
journalism student
student abby
abby indicated
indicated that
that she
she is
is not
not competent
to sit
sit down
down and
and write
write a
a program
program by
by herself
herself but
but that
that her
her it
it skills
skills would
be good
good enough
enough to
to perform
perform her
her work
work in
in the
the journalism
journalism area
abby for
for the
the future
future ill
ill need
need to
to know
know more
more about
about online
online journalism
but could
could i
i sit
sit down
down and
and make
make a
a web
web page
page no
no i
i think
think i
i would
would need
need more
i think
think i
i have
have enough
enough base
base knowledge
knowledge to
to accomplish
accomplish anything
that i
i would
would want
want to
to accomplish
if i
i want
want to
to learn
learn more
more i
i could
figure it
it out
out on
on my
my own
own without
without struggling
struggling too
too much
it seems
seems that
that students
students feel
feel that
that their
their it
it competency
competency is
is good
good enough
enough if
their it
it skills
skills and
and knowledge
knowledge are
are functional
functional in
in performing
performing what
what they
need to
to do
perceptions about
about the
the existing
existing cs
cs program
the interview
interview data
data revealed
revealed that
that many
many of
of the
the interviewees
interviewees have
have some
some sort
of interest
interest in
in learning
learning issues
issues in
in computing
as a
a result
result many
many students
have taken
taken or
or considered
considered taking
taking a
a cs
cs class
most students
students reported
reported that
the cs
cs classes
classes they
they tried
tried did
did not
not satisfy
satisfy their
their needs
first students
students generally
generally perceived
perceived that
that computer
computer science
science is
is very
very hard
cs classes
classes are
are usually
usually considered
considered to
to be
be hard
hard because
because they
they require
require a
a lot
of math
math background
some students
students pointed
pointed out
out that
that cs
cs classes
classes are
daunting even
even for
for people
people who
who already
already have
have some
some level
level of
of technical
competency outside
outside of
of class
chris i
i joined
joined the
the university
university with
with very
very sporadic
sporadic knowledge
knowledge of
i had
had fairly
fairly good
good knowledge
knowledge of
of coding
coding and
and software
however computer
computer programming
programming courses
courses in
in computer
computer science
department are
are notorious
notorious being
being exceedingly
exceedingly difficult
difficult even
even for
for people
who already
already know
know the
the basics
basics of
of the
the programming
students also
also commented
commented that
that the
the class
class atmosphere
atmosphere of
of cs
cs classes
classes is
is not
very friendly
friendly to
to novices
novices and
and lessexperienced
lessexperienced people
second the
the negative
negative stereotype
stereotype of
of cs
cs work
work influences
influences students
perceptions of
of cs
cs education
many students
students believed
believed that
that cs
cs work
typically requires
requires long
long hours
hours of
of working
working alone
alone with
with tedious
tedious tasks
tasks and
pointed to
to this
this as
as a
a very
very unattractive
unattractive aspect
aspect of
of learning
learning programming
dave programming
programming is
is a
a good
good skill
skill to
to have
its not
not something
something like
like for
sure going
going for
for career
career no
no way
i thought
thought its
its too
too dull
dull for
for me
personally because
because its
its solitary
i feel
feel like
like i
i have
have more
more social
skills i
i would
would rather
rather talk
talk and
and interact
interact with
with people
people on
on group
group work
work than
have just
just me
me in
in a
a closet
closet with
with a
a computer
third they
they feel
feel that
that what
what is
is being
being taught
taught in
in cs
cs is
is very
very theoretical
rather than
than practical
they pointed
pointed out
out that
that cs
cs classes
classes typically
require designing
designing everything
everything from
from scratch
scratch and
and producing
producing outcomes
outcomes that
are not
not immediately
immediately usable
this is
is not
not practical
practical for
for most
most students
students who
are not
not cs
cs majors
majors because
because the
the cs
cs way
way of
of programming
programming is
is not
not only
only hard
for them
them but
but also
also takes
takes a
a lot
lot longer
longer time
time than
than necessary
necessary to
to get
get what
they want
kelly my
my friends
friends have
have had
had taken
taken them
them they
they come
come home
home talking
talking about
their really
really arbitrary
arbitrary assignments
assignments things
things that
that are
are not
not gonna
gonna help
help them
i didnt
didnt want
want to
to deal
deal with
with those
those assignments
i want
want to
to learn
learn how
how to
really get
get end
end up
up and
and do
do something
something that
that i
i can
can actually
actually physically
physically use
create a
a product
i know
know that
that you
you need
need to
to learn
learn that
that in
in order
order to
to get
get to
but thats
thats not
not what
what i
i need
lastly some
some students
students expressed
expressed their
their concern
concern that
that cs
cs does
does not
not consider
the impacts
impacts of
of computing
computing on
on human
human life
chris one
one of
of the
the things
things that
that i
i found
found which
which is
is really
really good
good about
about the
the it
program was
was that
that it
it really
really focuses
focuses more
more on
on the
the interaction
interaction between
people and
and computers
computers instead
instead of
of just
just the
the very
very lowlevel
lowlevel programming
aspect which
which is
is something
something that
that i
i really
really missed
missed in
in the
the computer
computer science
there wasnt
wasnt really
really anything
anything that
that computer
computer science
science can
offer me
me that
that i
i was
was really
really looking
looking for
students comments
comments about
about the
the cs
cs program
program indicated
indicated that
that the
the focus
focus of
existing computing
computing education
education does
does not
not go
go very
very well
well with
with noncs
students needs
needs for
for computing
computing education
perceived gap
gap in
in college
college education
students reported
reported that
that they
they feel
feel some
some gap
gap in
in current
current college
college education
in terms
terms of
of education
education for
for it
first students
students pointed
pointed out
out that
that most
existing academic
academic programs
programs are
are very
very theorybased
theorybased and
and not
not practical
nathan is
is a
a computer
computer engineering
engineering major
he described
described his
his experience
experience that
all the
the theoretical
theoretical knowledge
knowledge that
that he
he had
had obtained
obtained from
from his
his study
study was
not very
very useful
useful in
in performing
performing his
his work
work assignment
nathan i
i do
do like
like a
a lot
lot of
of practical
practical things
things and
and am
am not
not real
real big
big into
studying theories
i dont
dont mind
mind studying
studying a
a theory
theory to
to get
get an
understanding of
of how
how software
software program
program works
works like
like the
the course
course i
i had
had last
semester we
we used
used a
a computer
computer design
design tool
tool to
to help
help us
us layout
layout a
a processor
so we
we actually
actually made
made our
our own
own little
little processors
processors and
and one
one of
of things
things you
you had
to connect
connect a
a bunch
bunch of
of different
different wires
wires between
between all
all these
these different
different little
if you
you do
do it
it manually
manually you
you will
will have
have a
a really
really big
big problem
problem you
you can
use a
a choice
choice of
of different
different algorithms
algorithms to
to automatically
automatically do
do it
it for
for you
i learned
learned about
about different
different algorithms
algorithms in
in class
class and
and used
used them
them in
in a
practical way
thats about
about the
the technology
technology that
that id
id like
like where
where i
can say
say all
all right
right i
i can
can use
use this
heres an
an algorithm
algorithm you
will use
use it
it maybe
maybe i
i am
am like
like okay
okay because
because i
i am
am not
not really
big into
into theory
theory and
and just
just kind
kind of
of good
good at
at research
research on
on that
that algorithm
its not
not all
all that
that useful
second students
students commented
commented that
that most
most academic
academic programs
programs focus
focus on
history and
and are
are slow
slow at
at embracing
embracing issues
issues of
of current
current affairs
affairs and
recent developments
this complaint
complaint appears
appears over
over a
a wide
wide range
range of
academic disciplines
dave a
a political
political science
science major
major mentions
mentions that
that political
political science
science deals
more with
with historical
historical stuff
stuff than
than the
the changes
changes that
that he
he is
is experiencing
right now
dave courses
courses in
in my
my major
major deal
deal a
a whole
whole lot
lot of
of government
government stuff
stuff seem
more of
of just
just history
history looking
looking back
back at
at the
the history
history of
of government
in this
this it
it course
course i
i feel
feel like
like what
what we
we are
are studying
studying is
is going
going right
i enjoy
enjoy that
that because
because its
its something
something that
that i
i feel
feel like
like i
i am
am in
actually a
a part
part of
of because
because i
i am
am participating
participating on
on the
the internet
internet which
mostly these
these classes
classes talk
talk about
about and
and how
how information
information is
is shared
shared through
different chat
i feel
feel like
like its
its not
not just
just studying
studying the
the past
studying now
another criticism
criticism was
was that
that there
there are
are rigid
rigid boundaries
boundaries among
among existing
disciplinary programs
programs across
across campus
many classes
classes are
are open
open only
only to
to the
students enrolled
enrolled in
in a
a specific
specific program
many social
social science
science classes
deal with
with it
it issues
issues at
at an
an upperundergraduate
upperundergraduate level
these upperlevel
courses usually
usually require
require several
several prerequisite
prerequisite courses
courses within
within a
a specific
there is
is no
no social
social science
science class
class that
that is
is entirely
entirely devoted
devoted to
discussions about
about it
zachary a
a cs
cs major
major is
is taking
taking an
an it
it course
course that
that fulfills
fulfills his
his general
education requirements
requirements for
for social
social sciences
he is
is very
very much
much into
into his
study in
in cs
cs and
and is
is also
also interested
interested in
in different
different kinds
kinds of
of discussion
about computers
computers and
and other
other technologies
as he
he did
did not
not want
want to
to go
go too
too far
away from
from technical
technical issues
issues when
when choosing
choosing social
social science
science courses
courses for
for his
general education
education requirements
requirements he
he decided
decided to
to pick
pick two
two it
it courses
courses that
satisfy the
the general
general education
education requirements
he found
found that
that it
it is
difficult to
to find
find such
such courses
courses from
from other
other social
social science
science disciplines
because other
other disciplines
disciplines usually
usually offer
offer technologyrelated
technologyrelated courses
courses only
at a
a higher
higher level
level for
for junior
junior and
and senior
senior students
students in
in their
their fields
zachary if
if i
i am
am looking
looking for
for a
a social
social science
science course
course that
that deals
deals with
it thatll
thatll be
be five
five courses
courses to
to get
get to
to anything
anything that
that really
really about
computers instead
instead of
of two
two introductory
introductory it
it courses
as it
it is
is increasingly
increasingly being
being adopted
adopted in
in many
many settings
settings in
in everyday
everyday life
students do
do have
have some
some sort
sort of
of sense
sense that
that there
there might
might be
be some
some education
program on
on it
it on
on campus
campus even
even without
without explicit
explicit knowledge
this is
expressed in
in the
the conversation
conversation with
with brad
brad an
an economics
economics major
major who
who is
is not
very fond
fond of
of working
working with
with it
heekyung did
did you
you know
know that
that there
there is
is an
an it
it minor
minor on
on campus
brad i
i guess
guess i
i wouldve
i dont
dont know
know explicitly
explicitly but
but i
i figured
that there
there would
would beit
beit isnt
isnt something
something that
that im
im extremely
interested in
in so
so i
i wouldnt
wouldnt have
have considered
considered it
it i
i wouldnt
wouldnt look
into finding
finding whether
whether there
there was
was but
but yeah
yeah i
i guess
guess i
i didnt
explicitly but
but i
i would
would have
have if
if it
it was
was something
something i
i was
was interested
interested in
in i
would have
have figured
figured that
that you
you can
can you
you can
can get
get an
an it
it minor
i had
had this
feeling that
that there
there is
is something
something like
like an
an it
it minor
minor on
on campus
figured it
it would
would be
be there
there but
but i
i didnt
didnt actually
actually know
it seems
seems that
that their
their perceived
perceived needs
needs for
for it
it education
education have
have to
to do
do with
their perceived
perceived gap
gap in
in current
current college
college education
reasons for
for choosing
choosing the
the it
it minor
while students
students choose
choose their
their major
major based
based on
on what
what they
they like
like and
and what
what they
are good
good at
at the
the interview
interview data
data showed
showed that
that students
students choose
choose the
the it
it minor
because of
of its
its practical
practical value
value that
that it
it education
education bears
bears to
to them
a few
few students
students reported
reported that
that they
they chose
chose it
it courses
courses because
because they
generally like
like to
to work
work with
with it
however for
for many
many other
other students
students it
it is
something that
that they
they will
will have
have to
to acquire
acquire knowledge
knowledge about
about for
for their
future whether
whether they
they like
like it
it or
or not
not or
or whether
whether they
they are
are good
good at
at dealing
with it
it or
or not
many students
students from
from various
various majors
majors from
from english
english to
computer science
science commonly
commonly perceive
perceive that
that it
it is
is not
not very
very exciting
exciting but
something that
that they
they will
will need
need to
to learn
learn eventually
eventually for
for their
their future
future life
beyond education
kate a
a humanities
humanities student
student has
has been
been hesitant
hesitant to
to embrace
embrace new
new technical
things since
since she
she was
was young
however she
she feels
feels that
that it
it is
is something
something that
she would
would need
need to
to confront
confront in
in developing
developing her
her future
future career
career anyway
repeated that
that learning
learning it
it is
is very
very hard
hard for
for her
her indicating
indicating that
that she
she is
taking the
the it
it minor
minor for
for its
its instrumental
instrumental value
value not
not because
because of
of her
fondness of
of what
what is
is being
being taught
taught in
in it
it education
kate technical
technical things
things are
are hard
hard but
but worth
worth learning
especially i
i am
coming into
into the
the graduate
graduate school
school of
of library
library and
and information
information science
science next
year so
so i
i know
know that
that i
i am
am gonna
gonna need
need to
to know
know things
things about
about internet
internet and
its just
just hard
its hard
hard for
for me
zachary a
a cs
cs major
major also
also talks
talks about
about the
the need
need to
to learn
learn about
about it
regardless of
of his
his willingness
willingness to
to stick
stick to
to a
a cs
cs job
in his
his mind
mind a
a cs
job is
is a
a job
job that
that focuses
focuses on
on programming
programming as
as opposed
opposed to
to an
an it
it job
job which
is more
more about
about providing
providing technical
technical support
support to
to other
other people
zachary i
i know
know i
i am
am most
most likely
likely ending
ending up
up with
with being
being a
a coder
coder somewhere
i will
will have
have to
to use
use code
code repositories
repositories knowledge
knowledge bases
bases a
a lot
lot of
of tech
support things
they put
put that
that in
in a
a repository
students said
said that
that they
they chose
chose the
the it
it minor
minor because
because they
they believed
believed the
study of
of it
it supplements
supplements their
their major
major field
field well
abby a
a journalism
major explained
explained her
her need
need to
to learn
learn it
it to
to be
be up
up front
front in
in her
her area
area of
abby i
i feel
feel like
like it
it the
the it
it minor
minor complements
complements my
my major
major journalism
journalism as
where the
the technology
technology of
of journalism
journalism is
is going
going and
and what
what new
new mediums
mediums we
will be
be using
using to
to portray
portray the
the news
i do
do think
think they
they are
are hard
hard and
and i
havent understood
understood everything
everything they
they said
said but
but i
i think
think overall
overall i
i have
have a
much better
better grasp
grasp of
of technology
technology than
than i
i did
another student
student mentioned
mentioned that
that he
he is
is taking
taking the
the it
it minor
minor to
to narrow
narrow down
his expertise
expertise in
in writing
writing to
to an
an itrelated
itrelated subfield
subfield for
for example
example to
become a
a lawyer
lawyer specialized
specialized in
in cyberspace
cyberspace law
larry i
i am
am going
going to
to law
law school
school and
and i
i am
am planning
planning on
on doing
doing something
very related
related to
to it
it or
or technology
technology in
in general
general maybe
maybe something
something like
like cyber
another important
important reason
reason is
is to
to differentiate
differentiate themselves
themselves from
from others
others with
similar qualifications
kelly is
is a
a humanities
humanities student
student who
who is
is planning
planning to
continue her
her study
study in
in library
library and
and information
information science
science after
after college
thinks that
that there
there are
are so
so many
many librarianstobe
librarianstobe who
who have
have similar
she considers
considers it
it competency
competency as
as something
something that
that would
would make
her unique
unique by
by showing
showing her
her wellroundedness
kelly i
i feel
feel like
like itll
itll at
at least
least give
give me
me a
a little
little bit
bit more
more a
wellrounded aspect
aspect just
just than
than just
just doing
doing humanities
having any
any sort
sort of
it competency
competency is
is gonna
gonna put
put you
you so
so much
much higher
higher in
in the
the rankings
rankings as
as far
far as
finding positions
positions than
than anyone
anyone else
most students
students comments
comments indicated
indicated that
that some
some practical
practical value
value of
receiving it
it education
education rather
rather than
than an
an inherent
inherent interest
interest in
in it
it is
is a
critical factor
factor in
in their
their decision
decision to
to take
take the
the it
it minor
factors that
that influence
influence students
students choice
choice of
of it
it minor
students comments
comments about
about the
the it
it education
education program
program indicate
indicate that
that there
would be
be numerous
numerous challenges
challenges in
in building
building and
and administering
administering a
a successful
undergraduate it
it education
education program
first of
of all
all the
the it
it minor
minor is
is optional
optional to
to students
students unlike
unlike a
a major
students mentioned
mentioned that
that they
they have
have to
to weigh
weigh carefully
carefully the
the value
value of
of doing
the it
it minor
minor with
with other
other valuable
valuable opportunities
opportunities that
that they
they could
could possibly
take such
such as
as internships
internships study
study abroad
abroad opportunities
opportunities parttime
parttime jobs
campus honors
honors programs
programs and
and participating
participating in
in student
student organizations
another important
important factor
factor in
in doing
doing the
the it
it minor
minor is
is how
how flexible
flexible the
course requirements
requirements within
within their
their major
major are
while some
some social
social science
majors do
do encourage
encourage students
students to
to have
have a
a minor
minor with
with an
an additional
requirement like
like hours
hours of
of supporting
supporting coursework
coursework other
other majors
leave no
no room
room for
for students
students to
to seek
seek another
another interest
nathan who
who is
is a
senior in
in computer
computer engineering
engineering cautioned
cautioned that
that a
a student
student in
in his
his major
has to
to be
be very
very careful
careful in
in choosing
choosing to
to do
do something
something outside
outside of
of his
his major
nathan in
in engineering
engineering if
if youre
youre going
going to
to take
take courses
courses that
that arent
technical a
a lot
lot of
of times
times you
you need
need to
to make
make sure
sure if
if those
those are
are counting
for something
for him
him if
if he
he takes
takes something
something outside
outside his
his major
major without
without confirming
confirming that
the outside
outside course
course counts
counts towards
towards something
something for
for his
his degree
degree it
it would
cause trouble
trouble in
in finishing
finishing his
his degree
degree on
on time
some students
students expressed
expressed their
their worries
worries that
that other
other important
important people
people like
hiring managers
managers would
would not
not know
know what
what the
the it
it minor
minor is
rachel a
a business
student made
made an
an interesting
interesting comment
comment based
based on
on her
her interviewing
experience for
for an
an internship
rachel in
in my
my interviews
interviews i
i asked
asked some
some of
of the
the recruiters
recruiters what
what would
they think
think of
of the
the it
it minor
i think
think a
a lot
lot of
of recruiters
recruiters would
misunderstand they
they think
think it
it as
as computer
computer science
science so
so they
they think
think oh
youre an
an accounting
accounting major
major we
we need
need you
you to
to do
do accounting
accounting we
we dont
need you
you to
to fix
fix computers
thats their
their idea
i dont
dont think
think they
would understand
understand what
what it
it is
fixing a
a computer
computer may
may be
be a
a popular
popular stereotype
stereotype about
about it
it work
rachels comment
comment signals
signals that
that raising
raising other
other stakeholders
stakeholders awareness
about an
an it
it education
education program
program would
would be
be an
an important
important factor
factor for
for students
to have
have a
a positive
positive impression
impression about
about an
an it
it program
if other
other people
people who
have significant
significant influence
influence on
on students
students future
future do
do not
not understand
understand what
an it
it program
program is
is it
it would
would make
make students
students hesitant
hesitant about
about choosing
choosing an
an it
in this
this study
study students
students from
from different
different majors
majors showed
showed diverse
diverse interests
in it
it education
however the
the existing
existing computer
computer science
science program
program does
does not
seem to
to respond
respond to
to those
those interests
students also
also pointed
pointed out
out that
higher education
education in
in general
general has
has a
a gap
gap in
in addressing
addressing the
the issues
issues emerging
from increasing
increasing implementation
implementation of
of it
in addition
addition most
most students
indicated that
that they
they are
are anticipating
anticipating some
some practical
practical advantages
advantages by
enrolling in
in an
an it
it education
education program
the findings
findings also
also signal
signal that
marketing of
of an
an it
it program
program should
should be
be directed
directed not
not only
only to
to students
students but
to various
various stakeholder
stakeholder groups
groups whose
whose perspectives
perspectives have
have significant
influence on
on college
college students
students comments
comments also
also implied
implied that
that it
it education
education is
is facing
facing many
it seems
seems that
that many
many of
of the
the challenges
challenges for
for an
an it
it program
program come
from its
its interdisciplinary
interdisciplinary nature
it programs
programs are
are usually
usually built
built as
as an
interdisciplinary endeavor
endeavor as
as they
they usually
usually start
start with
with the
the recognition
that there
there is
is a
a niche
niche between
between technologies
technologies and
and their
their social
social contexts
fill the
the niche
niche the
the it
it programs
programs emphasize
emphasize gathering
gathering multiple
perspectives for
for viewing
viewing computing
computing from
from sociology
sociology from
from communications
and from
from computer
computer science
science etc
to sustain
sustain an
an interdisciplinary
interdisciplinary program
gathering and
and organizing
organizing supports
supports from
from many
many disciplines
disciplines is
is crucial
berghel and
and sallach
sallach have
have already
already observed
observed that
that many
many it
it programs
programs are
being organized
organized at
at a
a university
university level
level rather
rather than
than at
at a
a departmental
the scope
scope of
of this
this study
study is
is limited
limited to
to an
an it
it minor
minor program
program in
in a
a specific
therefore the
the findings
findings may
may not
not hold
hold for
for students
students in
in other
universities or
or in
in other
other it
it programs
programs that
that are
are offered
offered as
as a
a major
this case
case study
study was
was conducted
conducted with
with the
the intention
intention of
of getting
getting an
indepth understanding
understanding of
of students
students perspectives
there are
are not
not many
previous studies
studies about
about students
students perceptions
perceptions about
about it
it education
this stage
stage the
the benefits
benefits of
of identifying
identifying students
students various
various issues
involved in
in receiving
receiving it
it education
education outweigh
outweigh the
the value
value of
of getting
generalizable findings
findings across
across a
a large
large number
number of
of college
college students
the findings
findings strongly
strongly suggest
suggest that
that students
students expect
expect an
an it
it education
program that
that has
has a
a different
different focus
focus than
than that
that of
of the
the other
other existing
computing programs
just me
me in
in a
a closet
closet with
with a
a computer
computer may
may be
be a
common portrait
portrait of
of programmingcomputer
programmingcomputer science
science that
that students
students have
wanting something
something different
different from
from that
that is
is a
a major
major reason
reason that
that students
seek it
it education
students from
from various
various majors
majors want
want some
some computing
education that
that is
is more
more interesting
interesting more
more practical
practical and
and more
more meaningful
than cs
this study
study is
is valuable
valuable in
in that
that it
it delivers
delivers this
this anticipation
anticipation to
the it
it educators
educators community
berghel h
and sallach
sallach d
a paradigm
paradigm shift
shift in
in computing
computing and
it education
communications of
of the
the acm
facer k
sutherland r
furlong r
and furlong
the point
point of
of using
using computers
computers the
the development
development of
of young
young peoples
expertise in
in the
the home
new media
media and
and society
hargittai e
and hinnant
hinnant a
toward a
a social
social framework
framework for
information seeking
in spink
spink a
cole c
new directions
directions in
human information
information behavior
new york
york springer
national telecommunications
telecommunications and
and information
information administration
falling through
through the
the net
available at
at hyperlink
nielsen j
usability engineering
boston ap
ap professional
rogoff b
apprenticeship in
in thinking
thinking cognitive
cognitive development
development in
social context
new york
york oxford
oxford university
university press
smolak l
adult development
englewood cliffs
cliffs n
spliter v
learning to
to use
use it
it in
in the
the workplace
workplace mechanisms
mechanisms and
journal of
of organizational
organizational and
and end
end user
user computing
twidale m
over the
the shoulder
shoulder learning
learning supporting
supporting brief
informal learning
computer supported
supported cooperative
cooperative work
vygotsky l
thought and
and language
cambridge ma
ma mit
mit press
web technologies
where students
students interests
interests are
