reframing book
book publishing
publishing in
in the
the age
age of
of networkingjana
networkingjana bradley
bradley phd
university of
of arizona
e first
first st
tucson az
heather vokac
vokac mls
university of
of arizona
e first
first st
tucson az
this paper
paper presents
presents preliminary
preliminary results
results of
of an
an ongoing
ongoing examination
examination of
book publishing
publishing practices
practices emerging
emerging through
through the
the complex
complex interaction
interaction of
technological economic
economic and
and sociocultural
sociocultural factors
factors in
in the
the networking
environment of
of the
the internet
the theoretical
theoretical framework
framework guiding
guiding the
the study
is a
a diachronic
diachronic definition
definition of
of book
book publishing
publishing proposed
proposed by
by thomas
thomas r
adams and
and nicolas
nicolas barker
barker in
in a
a new
new model
model for
for the
the study
study of
of the
the book
first published
published in
in a
a potency
potency of
of life
life books
books in
in society
society by
by the
the british
library in
the adamsbarker
adamsbarker definition
definition of
of publishing
publishing focuses
focuses on
the initial
initial decision
decision to
to multiply
multiply a
a text
text or
or image
image for
in this
this paper
paper we
we propose
propose what
what we
we intend
intend as
as a
a friendly
amendment to
to their
their definition
definition for
for our
our purposes
purposes a
a book
book publisher
publisher is
is an
individual or
or a
a collective
collective that
that makes
makes the
the initial
initial decisions
decisions and
arrangements for
for multiple
multiple copies
copies of
of books
books to
to be
be publicly
publicly available
available for
the methodology
methodology for
for this
this work
work was
was to
to study
study a
a purposive
sample of
of book
book publishers
publishers found
found on
on the
the internet
internet that
that fit
fit our
definitional framework
our final
final sample
sample which
which we
we call
call emerging
publishers is
is just
just under
under publishers
this sample
sample was
was divided
divided into
three categories
categories category
category i
i book
book publishing
publishing entities
entities category
category ii
author as
as publisher
publisher and
and category
category iii
iii channels
channels to
to market
each category
is subdivided
subdivided defined
defined and
and described
tables are
are included
included which
which show
the publishers
publishers in
in each
each category
the paper
paper concludes
concludes with
with observations
across categories
categories about
about format
format shifts
shifts in
in publishers
publishers roles
roles standards
of publishing
publishing practice
practice costs
costs and
and discovery
discovery reception
reception and
and reading
reading and
community technologies
technologies and
and networking
cultural information
information systems
information technology
technology and
and services
electronic publishing
publishing in
in the
the st
st century
emerging publishers
copyright and
and disclaimer
disclaimer information
the copyright
copyright of
of this
this document
document remains
remains with
with the
the authors
authors andor
andor their
by submitting
submitting their
their papers
papers to
to the
the ischools
ischools conference
web site
site the
the authors
authors hereby
hereby grant
grant a
a nonexclusive
nonexclusive license
license for
for the
ischools to
to post
post and
and disseminate
disseminate their
their papers
papers on
on its
its web
web site
site and
and any
other electronic
electronic media
contact the
the authors
authors directly
directly for
for any
any use
use outside
of downloading
downloading and
and referencing
referencing this
this paper
neither the
the ischools
ischools nor
nor any
of its
its associated
associated universities
universities endorse
endorse this
this work
the authors
authors are
are solely
responsible for
for their
their papers
papers content
our thanks
thanks to
to the
the association
for computing
computing machinery
machinery for
for permission
permission to
to adapt
adapt and
and use
use their
their template
for the
the ischools
ischools conference
this paper
paper presents
presents preliminary
preliminary results
results of
of an
an ongoing
ongoing examination
examination of
book publishing
publishing practices
practices emerging
emerging through
through the
the complex
complex interaction
interaction of
technological economic
economic and
and sociocultural
sociocultural factors
factors in
in the
the networking
environment of
of the
the internet
the theoretical
theoretical framework
framework guiding
guiding the
the study
is a
a diachronic
diachronic definition
definition of
of book
book publishing
publishing proposed
proposed by
by thomas
thomas r
adams and
and nicolas
nicolas barker
barker in
in a
a new
new model
model for
for the
the study
study of
of the
the book
first published
published in
in a
a potency
potency of
of life
life books
books in
in society
society by
by the
british library
library in
in and
and reissued
reissued in
in in
in paperback
paperback by
by the
the british
library and
and oak
oak knoll
knoll press
they were
were interested
interested in
in developing
developing a
definition that
that would
would accommodate
accommodate changes
changes in
in publishing
publishing practices
practices from
the manuscript
manuscript book
book period
period to
to the
the present
present day
they comment
comment that
that while
the most
most familiar
familiar form
form of
of publishing
publishing is
is commercial
commercial models
models of
of publishing
that are
are not
not driven
driven by
by profit
profit have
have existed
existed from
from the
the rise
rise of
of the
the western
manuscript book
book trade
trade forward
they give
give as
as examples
examples the
the publishing
activities of
of governments
governments religious
religious institutions
institutions and
and individuals
supported by
by patronage
the adamsbarker
adamsbarker definition
definition of
of publishing
publishing focuses
focuses on
on the
the initial
decision to
to multiply
multiply a
a text
text or
or image
image for
for distribution
distribution adamsbarker
and identifies
identifies four
four roles
roles involved
involved in
in this
this decision
author financier
financier manufacturer
manufacturer and
and distributor
distributor which
which in
in any
any given
period of
of time
time might
might be
be performed
performed by
by distinct
distinct parties
parties or
or might
might be
be done
in any
any combination
the adamsbarker
adamsbarker model
model also
also depicts
depicts five
five events
events in
the life
life of
of a
a book
book publication
publication manufacture
manufacture distribution
distribution reception
and survival
these events
events are
are conceptualized
conceptualized as
as occurring
occurring within
within the
context of
of what
what they
they call
call the
the socioeconomic
socioeconomic conjecture
conjecture including
commercial pressures
pressures intellectual
intellectual legal
legal and
and religious
religious influences
influences and
the realms
realms of
of social
social behavior
behavior and
and taste
a diachronic
diachronic definition
definition of
of publishing
publishing i
a definition
definition that
that is
is generic
enough to
to encompass
encompass the
the study
study of
of book
book publishing
publishing as
as it
it changes
changes over
time is
is ideally
ideally suited
suited to
to an
an examination
examination of
of the
the changes
changes that
that are
occurring in
in the
the patterns
patterns and
and practices
practices with
with which
which books
books today
today come
come into
being as
as objects
objects are
are made
made publicly
publicly available
available are
are discovered
discovered by
potential audiences
audiences read
read or
or not
not read
read and
and survive
survive or
or do
do not
not survive
this paper
paper we
we propose
propose what
what we
we intend
intend as
as a
a friendly
friendly amendment
amendment to
adamsbarker for
for our
our purposes
purposes a
a book
book publisher
publisher is
is an
an individual
individual or
or a
collective that
that makes
makes the
the initial
initial decisions
decisions and
and arrangements
arrangements for
multiple copies
copies of
of books
books to
to be
be publicly
publicly available
available for
for distribution
it is
is worth
worth noting
noting that
that this
this definition
definition while
while we
we believe
believe it
it gets
gets at
at the
essential activity
activity underlying
underlying the
the diachronic
diachronic practice
practice of
of book
publishing does
does not
not require
require features
features of
of the
the publishing
publishing practices
practices we
know best
best from
from the
the twentieth
twentieth century
century such
such as
as commercial
commercial mainstream
publishing companies
companies with
with large
large financial
financial investment
investment for
for manufacture
tight gate
gate keeping
keeping of
of published
published material
material a
a body
body of
of book
book writing
writing and
publishing expertise
expertise interpreted
interpreted and
and enforced
enforced by
by editors
editors and
and publishers
consolidated distribution
distribution and
and above
above all
all print
print format
all these
features certainly
certainly still
still exist
exist in
in publishing
publishing and
and arguably
arguably still
dominate but
but by
by using
using a
a definition
definition that
that does
does not
not require
require these
features we
we can
can not
not only
only see
see continuity
continuity with
with publishing
publishing from
from the
manuscript book
book forward
forward but
but we
we are
are more
more likely
likely to
to see
see changes
changes that
that are
emerging in
in the
the technological
technological economic
economic and
and sociocultural
sociocultural world
world of
networking as
as currently
currently instantiated
instantiated on
on the
the internet
in addition
addition to
their diachronic
diachronic definition
definition of
of book
book publishing
publishing the
the theoretical
theoretical context
of adams
adams and
and barkers
barkers work
work including
including the
the identification
identification of
historically shifting
shifting roles
roles and
and the
the socioeconomic
socioeconomic conjecture
conjecture in
in which
they situate
situate the
the activities
activities and
and technologies
technologies that
that comprise
comprise the
the events
events in
the lives
lives of
of books
books shapes
shapes our
our thinking
thinking in
in this
this study
the focus
focus of
of this
this study
study is
is book
book publishing
publishing although
although the
the diachronic
definition of
of publishing
publishing above
above can
can be
be applied
applied to
to other
other types
types of
of content
for our
our purposes
purposes we
we have
have defined
defined a
a book
book loosely
loosely as
as any
any publication
publication of
monographic length
length with
with a
a sustained
sustained narrative
narrative or
or argument
argument either
textual or
or visual
visual or
or in
in combination
combination and
and some
some familial
familial relationship
relationship to
the genre
genre we
we know
know as
as the
the printed
printed book
book including
including some
some combination
author chapters
chapters tables
tables of
of contents
contents isbn
isbn number
number and
and other
the methodology
methodology for
for this
this work
work was
was to
to study
study a
a purposive
purposive sample
sample of
of book
publishers that
that fit
fit our
our definitional
definitional framework
framework continuing
continuing to
to search
until we
we were
were not
not retrieving
retrieving examples
examples that
that seemed
seemed new
new in
in significant
our final
final sample
sample which
which we
we call
call emerging
emerging publishers
publishers is
is just
just under
given the
the enormity
enormity and
and constantly
constantly changing
changing nature
nature of
of the
internet this
this is
is obviously
obviously not
not a
a complete
complete universe
we also
also chose
chose not
to examine
examine print
print publishers
publishers who
who did
did not
not use
use themselves
themselves use
use the
the internet
for distribution
distribution and
and sales
sales of
of books
books although
although many
many of
of these
publishers works
works are
are available
available through
through the
the distributors
distributors and
aggregators that
that were
were included
the ways
ways that
that digital
digital technologies
technologies are
changing traditional
traditional print
print publishing
publishing practices
practices excluding
excluding electronic
books have
have been
been documented
documented thoroughly
thoroughly by
by john
john thompson
thompson in
in books
books in
in the
digital age
those traditional
traditional publishers
publishers who
who are
are experimenting
with the
the emerging
emerging publishing
publishing environment
environment on
on the
the internet
internet are
are represented
well in
in our
our sample
categorical analysis
our goal
goal was
was to
to organize
organize our
our sample
sample around
around categories
categories whose
characteristics call
call attention
attention to
to key
key differences
differences among
among our
our publishers
and their
their activities
the categories
categories were
were not
not intended
intended to
to be
be mutually
exclusive but
but to
to highlight
highlight both
both shared
shared characteristics
characteristics and
and some
different patterns
patterns within
within categories
after much
much experimentation
experimentation we
identified three
three types
types of
of publishing
publishing agent
agent two
two who
who make
make the
the initial
decision and
and arrangements
arrangements to
to publish
publish and
and a
a third
third category
category used
used by
by both
types of
of primary
primary publishers
publishers for
for publishing
publishing arrangements
the first
category book
book publishing
publishing entities
entities was
was defined
defined as
as entities
entities or
individuals functioning
functioning as
as entities
entities who
who make
make initial
initial decisions
decisions to
to make
books from
from multiple
multiple authors
authors publicly
publicly available
the second
second category
authors as
as publishers
publishers was
was defined
defined as
as authors
authors themselves
themselves making
making the
initial decision
decision to
to publish
publish their
their own
own work
the third
third category
category was
defined as
as groups
groups that
that assist
assist publishers
publishers of
of both
both types
types with
with a
combination of
of publishing
publishing roles
this group
group was
was labeled
labeled channels
channels to
market following
following increasingly
increasingly common
common usage
usage among
among sites
sites studied
categories were
were then
then subdivided
subdivided again
again along
along common
common characteristics
intention is
is not
not to
to make
make a
a rigid
rigid classification
classification scheme
scheme but
but to
to highlight
distinctions in
in a
a systematic
systematic way
table i
i categories
categories of
of emerging
emerging publishers
our descriptions
descriptions of
of these
these categories
categories in
in the
the text
text below
below follow
follow roughly
the same
same pattern
pattern a
a label
label and
and definition
definition that
that attempts
attempts to
to capture
defining feature
feature of
of each
each category
category a
a description
description of
of common
characteristics and
and then
then a
a brief
brief discussion
discussion of
of a
a handful
handful of
of examples
that illustrate
illustrate either
either characteristic
characteristic or
or distinctive
distinctive features
features within
within a
tables accompanying
accompanying each
each discussion
discussion show
show the
the publishers
publishers in
each category
at the
the end
end of
of the
the descriptions
descriptions of
of categories
categories we
we bring
together some
some observations
observations about
about shifts
shifts in
in book
book publication
publication practices
resulting from
from the
the analysis
analysis of
of the
the sample
sample across
across categories
category i
i book
book publishing
publishing entities
this category
category comprises
comprises entities
entities who
who make
make the
the initial
initial decisions
decisions for
making multiple
multiple copies
copies of
of books
books from
from multiple
multiple authors
authors publicly
most of
of these
these entities
entities appear
appear to
to be
be commercial
commercial forprofit
it is
is useful
useful to
to think
think of
of these
these publishers
publishers in
in two
two groups
groups i
whose primary
primary production
production of
of books
books is
is print
print and
and who
who then
then may
may make
decisions to
to distribute
distribute electronically
electronically and
and i
i those
those whose
whose primary
production of
of books
books is
is electronic
electronic and
and who
who then
then may
may make
make decisions
decisions to
distribute in
in print
print pod
pod format
publishers of
of bornprint
bornprint ebooks
ebooks the
the key
key characteristic
characteristic highlighted
highlighted by
this category
category is
is the
the electronic
electronic offering
offering of
of books
books that
that first
first appeared
appeared in
our sample
sample includes
includes fifteen
fifteen print
print publishers
publishers with
with substantial
electronic distribution
distribution announced
announced on
on their
their sites
sites by
by no
no means
means all
all that
exist but
but enough
enough of
of a
a variety
variety to
to show
show some
some common
common characteristics
characteristics and
some different
different arrangements
as with
with bornprint
bornprint ejournals
ejournals born
born print
ebooks bring
bring with
with them
them all
all the
the standard
standard valueadded
valueadded services
services of
of a
a print
publisher they
they are
are simply
simply distributed
distributed electronically
format of
distribution and
and availability
availability along
along with
with related
related changes
changes in
in discovery
mechanisms are
are features
features distinguishing
distinguishing this
this category
category of
of electronic
in other
other respects
respects they
they follow
follow commercial
commercial print
print publishers
publishing practices
practices including
including the
the acquisition
acquisition and
and preparation
preparation of
manuscripts and
and the
the compensation
compensation of
of authors
having said
said that
that it
it is
highly likely
likely that
that the
the pressures
pressures and
and competition
competition of
of the
the emerging
publishers discussed
discussed below
below will
will over
over time
time change
change more
more print
print publishing
practices as
as it
it is
is clearly
clearly influencing
influencing distribution
distribution and
and marketing
marketing now
simon and
and schuster
schuster ebooks
ebooks serves
serves as
as an
an example
example for
for this
this category
hyperlink httpwww
it is
is a
section of
of the
the simon
simon and
and shuster
shuster website
website it
it shows
shows covers
covers blurbs
blurbs and
publication information
information and
and available
available formats
at present
present simon
simon and
schuster ebooks
ebooks are
are downloadable
downloadable in
in adobe
adobe microsoft
microsoft and
and palm
palm ebook
com ebook
ebook boutique
boutique hyperlink
com httpebooks
com and
epenquin hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
uk follow
follow a
a similar
similar pattern
several other
other models
models can
can be
be seen
seen within
within this
this group
norton ebooks
asp offers
offers two
two options
options for
electronic books
books reading
reading for
for a
a year
year online
online purchased
purchased through
through norton
or downloading
downloading through
through hyperlink
hyperlink httppowells
com t
t blank
com a
a vendor
vendor of
of ebooks
ebooks in
in adobe
adobe microsoft
microsoft and
and palm
palm as
as well
as new
new and
and used
used traditional
traditional print
print books
cambridge university
university press
press has
a site
site cambridge
cambridge ebookstore
ebookstore which
which serves
serves as
as a
a catalog
catalog of
of cambridge
university press
press ebook
ebook offerings
purchase and
and download
download of
of ebooks
ebooks is
handled through
through a
a distributor
distributor ebooks
hachette book
book group
group usa
usa for
book publishers
publishers owned
owned by
by hachette
hachette hyperlink
com serves
serves as
as a
a union
union catalog
for its
its publishers
a where
where to
to buy
buy link
link has
has extensive
extensive lists
lists of
booksellers websites
websites audio
audio book
book vendors
vendors and
and online
online retailers
table ii
ii provides
provides a
a list
list of
of publishers
publishers of
of bornprint
bornprint ebooks
ebooks from
from our
table ii
ii publishers
publishers of
of bornprint
bornprint ebooks
cambridge university
university press
press ebookstore
del rey
rey online
online httpwww
com ebook
ebook botique
botique httpebooks
epenguin httptinyurl
com httpwww
hachette book
book group
group usa
usa httpwww
the hindu
hindu ebooks
ebooks httpwww
imagine ebooks
ebooks httpimagineebooks
mtb europe
europe httpwww
mythic island
island press
press hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
com httpwww
simon schuster
tanner ritchie
ritchie publishing
publishing httpwww
taylor francis
francis ebookstore
ebookstore hyperlink
white wolf
wolf httpwww
publishers of
of borndigital
borndigital ebooks
ebooks this
this category
category features
features publishers
publishers of
electronic books
books that
that have
have not
not been
been preceded
preceded by
by print
print books
books in
in other
words borndigital
borndigital ebooks
we found
found over
over examples
examples of
of publishers
that fit
fit this
this definition
in general
general many
many patterns
patterns and
and practices
practices of
these publishers
publishers resemble
resemble those
those of
of print
print publishers
these publishers
make editorial
editorial decisions
decisions in
in determining
determining which
which manuscripts
manuscripts to
to select
either from
from open
open submission
submission or
or by
by invitation
invitation they
they do
do not
not charge
charge authors
any fees
fees for
for publishing
publishing they
they have
have contracts
contracts specifying
specifying royalties
royalties and
rights they
they provide
provide the
the typical
typical valueadded
valueadded services
services of
of print
publishers including
including arranging
arranging for
for the
the publishing
publishing infrastructure
financial underwriting
underwriting quality
quality control
control editorial
editorial and
and design
design services
and marketing
marketing through
through their
their website
website acting
acting like
like an
an online
online bookstore
bookstore or
publishers in
in this
this category
category distributed
distributed multiple
multiple copies
copies of
of original
original work
made publicly
publicly available
available for
for the
the first
first time
time primarily
primarily through
through a
a variety
of electronic
electronic means
means in
in a
a variety
variety of
of formats
formats for
for viewing
viewing on
on the
consumers computer
computer or
or on
on a
a variety
variety of
of viewing
viewing devices
devices with
with a
a variety
of controls
controls over
over use
a brief
brief discussion
discussion of
of ebook
ebook formats
formats reading
devices and
and digital
digital rights
rights management
management drm
drm is
is necessary
necessary here
here but
but will
inevitably be
be out
out of
of date
date quickly
quickly since
since the
the volatile
volatile and
and rapidly
changing market
market is
is conditioned
conditioned by
by multiple
multiple business
business arrangements
arrangements among
publishers channels
channels to
to market
market and
and device
device manufacturers
an industry
standard has
has yet
yet to
to emerge
emerge and
and some
some argue
argue that
that the
the difficulty
difficulty of
choosing formats
formats and
and actually
actually downloading
downloading to
to devices
devices rather
rather than
than an
aversion to
to reading
reading on
on screens
screens or
or a
a predilection
predilection for
for the
the print
print book
book as
an object
object has
has prevented
prevented an
an explosion
explosion of
of consumer
consumer preference
preference for
electronic over
over print
in december
december michael
michael hyatt
hyatt ceo
ceo and
publisher of
of thomas
thomas nelson
nelson publishers
publishers in
in a
a blog
blog posting
posting titled
titled the
death of
of the
the traditional
traditional book
book popularized
popularized the
the now
now oftrepeated
phrase one
one device
device away
away from
from a
a digital
digital book
book revolution
some have
suggested that
that amazons
amazons kindle
kindle discussed
discussed below
below is
is if
if not
not the
the one
device that
that will
will revolutionize
revolutionize digital
digital books
books at
at least
least a
a harbinger
harbinger of
that device
the overview
overview of
of ebook
ebook formats
formats and
and devices
devices from
from fictionwise
fictionwise discussed
below under
under the
the category
category of
of channels
channels to
to market
htm is
is reproduced
reproduced below
below as
as an
indicator of
of the
the variety
variety of
of formats
formats and
and devices
devices now
now available
sony reader
reader sony
sony reader
reader prs
prs and
and prs
kindle kindle
personal computers
computers microsoft
microsoft reader
lit adobe
adobe acrobat
palm os
os handhelds
handhelds palm
palm doc
pdb isilo
isilo is
pdb mobipocket
pocket pc
pc handhelds
handhelds microsoft
microsoft reader
lit mobipocket
win ce
ce handhelds
handhelds palm
palm doc
pdb mobipocket
rocketreb devices
devices rocket
rocket files
files only
franklin ebookman
ebookman mobipocket
mobipocket ebookman
ebookman files
hiebook hiebook
symbian os
os organizers
organizers and
and smartphones
smartphones mobipocket
other devices
devices many
many can
can read
read palm
palm doc
fictionwise describes
describes their
their electronic
electronic offerings
offerings as
as either
either multiformat
or secure
secure format
format the
the key
key difference
difference here
here is
is encryption
encryption or
or digital
digital rights
the fictionwise
fictionwise discussion
discussion of
of this
this difference
difference hyperlink
an excellent
excellent introduction
introduction to
to devices
devices formats
formats and
and digital
digital rights
management and
and their
their faq
faq offers
offers some
some insight
insight into
into the
the business
decisions that
that shape
shape the
the conditions
conditions of
of availability
many of
of these
these publishers
publishers also
also offered
offered pod
pod print
print versions
versions either
either at
their discretion
discretion depending
depending on
on sales
sales or
or less
less frequently
frequently at
at the
authors choice
it is
is common
common for
for these
these publishers
publishers to
to use
use third
parties for
for both
both manufacture
manufacture and
and simultaneous
simultaneous distribution
distribution of
of print
most books
books have
have isbn
isbn numbers
in general
general most
most of
of these
publishers do
do not
not pay
pay advances
advances but
but royalty
royalty percentages
percentages could
could be
be larger
than print
print percentages
percentages keeping
keeping in
in mind
mind that
that costs
costs per
per copy
copy was
was often
less than
than print
although many
many publishing
publishing practices
practices of
of these
these emerging
emerging publishers
publishers are
similar to
to patterns
patterns from
from commercial
commercial print
print publishing
publishing it
it is
is important
important to
recognize ways
ways in
in which
which these
these emerging
emerging publishers
publishers are
are pushing
pushing the
traditional boundaries
boundaries of
of publishing
publishing established
established in
in the
the print
print world
content is
is one
one of
of the
the most
most obvious
obvious differences
fiction and
particularly romance
romance and
and other
other genre
genre fiction
fiction dominated
dominated our
our sample
although nonfiction
nonfiction was
was available
imprints or
or series
series with
with specific
characteristics are
are frequently
frequently used
used to
to direct
direct niche
niche audiences
audiences to
to their
the categorical
categorical lists
lists which
which comprise
comprise the
the primary
primary subject
subject finding
tool for
for all
all categories
categories of
of publishers
publishers show
show some
some categories
categories that
that arguably
have not
not been
been well
well represented
represented across
across print
print publishing
publishing such
such as
as erotica
dark fantasy
fantasy and
and others
lower entry
entry costs
costs for
for these
these publishers
publishers compared
compared to
to traditional
traditional print
publishing may
may account
account for
for the
the flourishing
flourishing of
of niche
niche publishing
publishers and
and imprints
imprints within
within publishers
publishers that
that are
are targeted
targeted to
to specific
and frequently
frequently nonmainstream
nonmainstream audiences
double dragon
dragon publishing
publishing hyperlink
php is
is an
an example
example chosen
chosen for
this category
founded in
in it
it is
is primarily
primarily an
an ebook
ebook publisher
although it
it chooses
chooses some
some titles
titles for
for pod
pod print
print distribution
distribution through
com especially
especially in
in large
large print
print versions
it provides
provides royalties
paid on
on a
a month
month cycle
cycle it
it buys
buys electronic
electronic rights
rights and
and copyright
copyright is
retained by
by author
author or
or institution
it does
does not
not charge
charge fees
fees to
to authors
according to
to their
their website
website of
of their
their sales
sales come
come from
from science
fiction fantasy
fantasy horror
horror and
and speculative
speculative fiction
in they
opened a
a romance
romance line
services provided
provided to
to authors
authors include
include editing
services cover
cover and
and banner
banner design
design free
free copies
copies for
for use
use in
in promotion
promotion and
an authorsonly
authorsonly forum
in addition
addition to
to a
a long
long list
list of
of genre
genre fiction
fiction they
have more
more than
than titles
titles in
in the
the nonfiction
nonfiction category
category and
and also
also in
in the
selfhelp category
they provide
provide ebooks
ebooks in
in the
the following
following formats
rocketebook hiebook
hiebook adobe
adobe pdf
pdf msreader
msreader mobipocket
mobipocket isilo
isilo franklin
ebookman and
and palm
palm doc
doc and
and the
the website
website assures
assures readers
readers that
that they
they will
keep up
up with
with new
new technologies
new concepts
concepts publishing
publishing hyperlink
htm another
another example
was the
the first
first totally
totally electronic
electronic romance
romance publishing
publishing house
like most
other examples
examples in
in this
this category
category ncp
ncp assigns
assigns isnb
isnb numbers
numbers pays
royalties provides
provides cover
cover art
art and
and buys
buys exclusive
exclusive electronic
rights for
for a
a specified
specified amount
amount of
of time
ncp decides
decides based
based on
on interest
and sales
sales whether
whether a
a title
title will
will be
be printed
printed as
as a
a pod
pod or
or trade
trade paperback
ebooks are
are provided
provided in
in rtf
rtf html
html ms
ms reader
reader mobipocket
mobipocket and
and pdf
writers exchange
exchange epublishing
epublishing differs
differs from
from the
the two
two examples
examples above
above in
that authors
authors have
have the
the option
option of
of paying
paying setup
setup print
print fees
fees and
and having
having the
book appear
appear in
in print
print as
as well
well as
as electronically
writers exchange
publishes ebooks
ebooks which
which they
they distribute
distribute through
through their
their online
online store
readers eden
they also
also distribute
distribute electronic
electronic books
books by
by other
other authors
awestruck ebooks
ebooks httpwww
net publishes
publishes genre
genre fiction
and provides
provides an
an example
example of
of niche
niche publishing
publishing with
with their
their ennoble
ennoble imprint
claiming to
to be
be unique
unique in
in featuring
featuring heroes
heroes and
and heroines
heroines with
table iii
iii provides
provides an
an incomplete
incomplete list
list of
of publishers
publishers of
of borndigital
ebooks in
in our
our sample
please email
email authors
authors for
for complete
complete list
table iii
iii publishers
publishers of
of borndigital
borndigital ebooks
altx ebooks
ebooks httpwww
amber quill
quill press
press also
also amber
amber heat
heat and
and amber
amber allure
allure imprints
amira press
press httpwww
aphrodites apples
apples httpwww
arch ebooks
ebooks httpwww
artemis press
press httpwww
asylett press
press httpwww
atlantic bridge
bridge includes
includes nonfiction
nonfiction hyperlink
net httpwww
awestruck ebooks
ebooks httpwww
baen books
books httpwww
bellaonline httpwww
belgrave house
house httpwww
best buy
buy ebooks
ebooks only
only two
two authors
authors print
print through
through lulu
books for
for a
a buck
buck httpwww
books unbound
unbound httpwww
bookshaker nonfiction
nonfiction only
only httpwww
bosun books
books httpwww
bowbridge publishing
publishing httpwww
carnal desires
desires publishing
publishing httpwww
champagne books
books httpwww
changeling press
press erotic
erotic fiction
fiction httpwww
chippewa publishing
publishing llc
llc httpwww
cobblestone press
press httpwww
computer classics
classics httpwww
connexions nonfiction
nonfiction hyperlink
hyperlink httpcnx
creative guy
guy publishing
publishing httpwww
cybereditions nonfiction
nonfiction hyperlink
hyperlink httpcybereditions
dark eden
eden press
press httpwww
derlingers publishers
publishers includes
includes nonfiction
nonfiction httpwww
com httpwww
diskus publishing
publishing httpwww
dlsij press
press includes
includes nonfiction
nonfiction httpdlsijpress
double dragon
dragon publishing
publishing httpwww
com httpwww
dragonfly publishing
publishing httpwww
drollerie press
press httpwww
eastgate httpwww
net httpwww
ebooks on
on disk
disk httpwww
net also
also sells
sells previously
previously published
published books
incomplete list
please email
email authors
authors for
for complete
complete list
category ii
ii author
author as
as publisher
the second
second category
category highlights
highlights the
the author
author acting
acting as
as publisher
publisher the
person who
who makes
makes the
the initial
initial decisions
decisions and
and arrangements
arrangements to
to make
make multiple
copies available
available for
for public
public distribution
digital technologies
technologies have
opened many
many new
new avenues
avenues for
for authors
authors to
to create
create books
books and
and make
make them
publicly available
available and
and authors
authors are
are using
using them
them in
in great
great numbers
provide an
an overview
overview of
of the
the burgeoning
burgeoning world
world of
of authors
authors as
as publishers
publishers we
have organized
organized these
these efforts
efforts in
in three
three subcategories
these categories
even more
more than
than the
the ones
ones introduced
introduced previously
previously are
are an
an oversimplification
of the
the great
great variety
variety that
that exists
exists in
in these
these efforts
efforts but
but they
they have
have the
virtue of
of bringing
bringing some
some order
order to
to an
an examination
examination of
of this
this phenomenon
three categories
categories examined
examined here
here are
are authors
authors using
using feebased
feebased commercial
services authors
authors using
using automated
automated websites
websites designed
designed for
for uploading
uploading books
and authors
authors providing
providing their
their own
own web
web infrastructure
infrastructure for
for making
making their
their work
available and
and sometimes
sometimes sharing
sharing their
their space
space with
with other
other authors
authors using
using feebased
feebased publishing
publishing services
adams and
and barker
barker point
point out
out that
that authors
authors arranging
arranging for
for the
the publishing
publishing of
their own
own work
work often
often with
with the
the assistance
assistance of
of patronage
patronage has
has a
a long
in the
the twentieth
twentieth century
century authorfinanced
authorfinanced publishing
publishing carried
the pejorative
pejorative title
title of
of vanity
vanity publishing
publishing with
with the
the implied
implied assumption
that if
if authors
authors were
were any
any good
good they
they would
would not
not have
have to
to finance
finance the
publication of
of their
their own
own works
authors who
who arranged
arranged for
for the
the manufacture
of their
their own
own printed
printed books
books faced
faced major
major obstacles
obstacles in
in distributing
distributing them
in the
the preinternet
preinternet print
print book
book world
world distribution
distribution of
of books
books was
was in
in the
hands of
of a
a few
few wholesalers
wholesalers who
who supplied
supplied retailers
retailers libraries
libraries and
amazon pioneered
pioneered the
the channel
channel to
to market
market approach
approach on
on the
internet providing
providing for
for the
the discovery
discovery distribution
distribution and
and sales
sales of
of print
titles soon
soon expanded
expanded to
to media
media and
and other
other commodities
commodities and
and thus
thus breaking
up the
the distribution
distribution bottleneck
in early
early january
january the
the associated
associated press
press distributed
distributed an
an article
article by
candace choi
choi got
got a
a manuscript
manuscript publishing
publishing now
now a
a snap
highlighting the
the skyrocketing
skyrocketing use
use by
by authors
authors of
of feebased
feebased commercial
publishing services
our searching
searching identified
identified over
over fifty
fifty of
of these
services of
of which
which lulu
com amazons
amazons createspace
createspace and
and blurb
com were
featured by
by choi
the basic
basic idea
idea behind
behind these
these services
services is
is that
that authors
can purchase
purchase publishing
publishing infrastructure
infrastructure manufacturing
manufacturing distribution
distribution and
marketing services
services previously
previously provided
provided for
for free
free by
by print
print publishers
publishers for
their selected
selected authors
authors shifting
shifting both
both the
the decision
decision to
to publish
publish and
and the
financial burden
burden to
to the
the author
author but
but giving
giving them
them opportunities
opportunities to
to reach
audiences previously
previously dominated
dominated by
by commercial
commercial companies
while the
the main
thrust of
of most
most services
services is
is to
to provide
provide print
print books
books many
many provide
electronic distribution
distribution as
as well
two examples
examples of
of feebased
feebased publishing
services will
will be
be discussed
discussed iuniverse
iuniverse and
and amazons
amazons createspace
iuniverse is
is a
a useful
useful example
example to
to describe
describe briefly
briefly because
because they
they have
organized their
their services
services into
into packages
packages ranging
ranging from
from under
under to
to under
with addons
addons in
in all
all categories
the most
most inexpensive
inexpensive option
option is
most like
like traditional
traditional vanity
vanity publishing
publishing of
of the
the past
past providing
providing the
author with
with professionally
professionally manufactured
manufactured pod
pod print
print copies
copies for
for family
family and
friends with
with the
the added
added limited
limited distribution
distribution mechanism
mechanism of
of availability
through the
the iuniverse
iuniverse book
book store
increasingly expensive
expensive options
options provide
more professional
professional quality
quality and
and services
services and
and increasingly
increasingly wide
wide retail
availability through
through channels
channels to
to market
market such
such as
as barnes
barnes and
and noble
amazon and
and many
many others
the highend
highend services
services provide
provide the
the essentials
essentials of
commercial print
print publishing
publishing including
including marketing
marketing efforts
efforts such
such as
as the
distribution of
of review
review copies
amazons createspace
createspace calls
calls itself
itself on
on demand
demand publishing
manufacture and
and sell
sell physical
physical objects
objects including
including pod
pod books
books audio
audio books
audio cds
cds video
video cds
cds and
and other
other products
products one
one at
at a
a time
time as
as ordered
price is
is set
set by
by the
the author
author and
and royalties
royalties are
are paid
paid to
to the
the author
author as
as they
are generated
generated by
by sales
the author
author or
or creator
creator is
is entirely
entirely responsible
for the
the content
content which
which is
is uploaded
uploaded to
to createspace
createspace for
for production
createspace products
products are
are sold
sold via
via amazon
while theoretically
theoretically the
the consumer
consumer can
can identify
identify a
a selfpublished
selfpublished book
book by
recognizing the
the publisher
publisher the
the increasing
increasing number
number of
of these
these services
services plus
the increasing
increasing mix
mix on
on channel
channel to
to market
market sites
sites of
of commercial
commercial publishers
traditionally printed
printed books
books and
and emerging
emerging publishers
publishers of
of pod
pod books
books and
electronic books
books of
of many
many varieties
varieties means
means that
that in
in practice
practice the
distinction between
between commercial
commercial publication
publication and
and authorsubsidized
publication is
is increasingly
increasingly blurred
table iv
iv provides
provides a
a list
list of
of the
the feebased
feebased publishing
publishing services
services in
in our
table iv
iv feebased
feebased publishing
publishing services
antony rowe
rowe ltd
hyperlink httpwww
authorhouse hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
authors online
online hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
aventine press
press hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
blitz print
print hyperlink
booklocker httpwww
bookstand publishing
publishing hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
booksurge httpwww
cafepress httpwww
cheap ebooks
ebooks ebook
ebook pod
pod httpwww
dog ear
ear publishing
publishing hyperlink
ebookomatic operates
operates more
more like
like a
a pod
pod but
but produces
produces ebooks
ebooks only
ebookslib also
also multilingual
multilingual also
also distributor
distributor httpwww
equilibrium books
books hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
first choice
choice books
books hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
foremost press
press hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
fultus publishing
publishing hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
gaslight publishing
publishing traditional
traditional and
and subsidy
subsidy pub
glb literary
literary corner
corner includes
includes nonfiction
nonfiction httpwww
golden pillar
pillar publishing
publishing hyperlink
ilumina press
press hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
infinity publishing
publishing hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
inkwater press
press hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
instabook publisher
publisher hyperlink
iuniverse httpwww
kablam hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
com httpwww
keystone digital
digital press
press hyperlink
lightning source
source hyperlink
hyperlink httpswww
com httpwww
net publications
publications inc
outskirts press
press hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
page free
free publishing
publishing hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
pleasant world
world christian
christian print
print on
on demand
demand self
self publishing
publishing hyperlink
poseidon books
books hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
private ice
ice publications
publications hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
publish america
america hyperlink
hyperlink httppublishamerica
publishers row
row fee
fee based
based epub
epub httpwww
star publish
publish llc
llc httpstarpublish
tate publishing
publishing hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
trafford publishing
publishing hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
upublish hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
universal publishers
publishers hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
unlimited publishing
publishing hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
virtual bookworm
bookworm httpwww
wheatmark hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
wing span
span press
press hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
writers print
print shop
shop hyperlink
writersworld hyperlink
hyperlink httpwritersworld
xargol hebrew
hebrew and
and english
english hyperlink
xlibris hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
xulon press
press hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
authors using
using automated
automated websites
websites to
to upload
upload books
this category
category illustrates
illustrates automated
automated sites
sites that
that exist
exist solely
solely to
to provide
mechanics for
for authors
authors to
to upload
upload and
and share
share their
their work
work free
free for
for the
author and
and free
free for
for the
the reader
our sample
sample includes
includes sixteen
sixteen of
of these
mechanics conditions
conditions registration
registration and
and membership
membership all
all differ
although sites
sites vary
vary many
many have
have a
a high
high proportione
proportione of
of uncompleted
uncompleted or
abandoned work
four examples
examples will
will be
be highlighted
highlighted fictioncentral
nanowrimo writing
com and
and buried
net hyperlink
php describes
describes itself
itself as
as a
a place
to write
write and
and read
read original
original fiction
fiction stories
authors need
need to
to register
readers are
are encouraged
encouraged to
to register
register and
and are
are requested
requested to
to leave
leave a
a review
of what
what they
they have
have read
works can
can be
be posted
posted chapter
chapter by
by chapter
chapter and
and a
notation indicates
indicates when
when it
it is
is completed
the site
site administrators
administrators have
articulated rules
rules for
for writing
writing and
and reviewing
reviewing including
including a
a system
system of
ratings and
and warnings
warnings including
including the
the requirement
requirement to
to rate
rate material
material as
for people
people over
over and
and the
the notation
notation of
of slash
slash for
for material
material including
singlesex pairings
pairings and
and courtesy
courtesy rules
rules such
such as
as no
no rudeness
rudeness or
or swearing
nanowrimo hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
org is
is an
an engagingly
engagingly original
original attempt
attempt to
encourage people
people to
to jump
jump in
in and
and write
write a
a novel
in november
november registrants
have one
one month
month to
to complete
complete a
a word
word novel
the nanowrimo
nanowrimo website
says its
its all
all about
about quantity
quantity not
not quality
unlike many
many other
sites to
to upload
upload work
work the
the authors
authors work
work on
on nanowrimo
nanowrimo work
work remains
private unless
unless the
the author
author posts
posts excerpts
excerpts or
or shares
shares with
with others
at the
end of
of the
the month
month an
an authors
authors word
word count
count can
can be
be verified
verified and
and if
if it
exceeds the
the author
author is
is listed
listed as
as a
a winner
com httpwww
com describes
describes itself
itself as
as the
the online
community for
for writers
writers and
and readers
readers of
of all
all interests
interests and
and skill
skill levels
it requires
requires registration
registration in
in which
which the
the registrant
registrant provides
provides a
a username
that will
will be
be used
used as
as hisher
hisher online
online identity
identity and
and required
required personal
information for
for the
the site
site administrators
many features
features include
include space
space for
authors writing
writing profiles
profiles and
and many
many interactive
interactive community
community venues
com is
is an
an example
example of
of a
a site
site containing
containing content
content around
around a
a theme
theme in
this case
case everything
everything that
that is
is horror
horror and
and includes
includes mechanisms
for authors
authors to
to upload
upload their
their own
own writing
writing again
again in
in this
this case
case horror
table v
v lists
lists the
the automated
automated publishing
publishing websites
websites in
in our
our sample
table v
v automated
automated publishing
publishing websites
abc tales
tales hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
com httpwww
afterglare hyperlink
hyperlink httpafterglare
badosa hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
com httpwww
estories german
german english
english spanish
spanish dutch
dutch french
french italian
italian portuguese
hyperlink httpwww
de httpwww
com hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
fictioncentral hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
fiction press
press hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
ficwad hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
com httpwww
nanowrimo hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
novicewriters hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
shurtugal hyperlink
slash cotillion
cotillion hyperlink
hyperlink httpcotillion
usenet google
google groups
groups hyperlink
hyperlink httpgroups
com hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
com httpwww
com hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
cosmos magazine
magazine fiction
fiction serials
serials hyperlink
authors creating
creating their
their own
own infrastructure
infrastructure to
to publish
publish their
their work
the relative
relative ease
ease of
of website
website construction
construction has
has enabled
enabled numerous
numerous authors
to create
create sites
sites as
as venues
venues for
for their
their own
own work
some sites
sites exist
exist solely
for the
the authors
authors content
content with
with some
some or
or all
all items
items free
free to
to consumers
and some
some sites
sites exist
exist primarily
primarily for
for the
the authors
authors work
work but
but accept
accept works
from other
other writers
writers again
again with
with variation
variation in
in fee
fee or
or free
since a
a great
deal of
of variety
variety exists
exists here
here those
those interested
interested should
should explore
explore the
the lists
of sites
sites created
created and
and controlled
controlled by
by authors
authors in
in table
table vi
table vi
vi websites
websites created
created and
and controlled
controlled by
by authors
singleauthor only
aniskys abode
abode hyperlink
back in
in school
school a
a love
love story
story hyperlink
html httpwww
backpacking on
on little
little money
money hyperlink
caring for
for gods
gods laptop
laptop hyperlink
cagodslaptop httpwww
org hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
the circle
circle of
of ceridwen
ceridwen hyperlink
coyote hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
dark icon
icon hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
darkfin hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
diary of
of a
a heretic
heretic hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
bauden original
original fiction
fiction hyperlink
fiction by
by junkfood
junkfood monkey
monkey hyperlink
fields of
of night
night hyperlink
hyperlink httpusers
from in
in the
the shadows
shadows hyperlink
hyperlink httpfromintheshadows
furry magic
magic hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
hopcott ebooks
ebooks http
http hopcott
if he
he should
should lose
lose his
his own
own soul
soul hyperlink
jackees corner
corner hyperlink
hyperlink httpfiction
kuroiyusei original
original fiction
fiction hyperlink
htm l
lady jaida
jaida original
original fiction
fiction hyperlink
maximillian lckenhaus
lckenhaus german
german hyperlink
metropoppyfield hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
moments of
of existence
existence hyperlink
mortal ghost
ghost hyperlink
hyperlink httpmortalghost
nate simpson
simpson hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
nicole west
west original
original fiction
fiction hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
paddy original
original fiction
fiction hyperlink
prose dreams
dreams hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
the relic
relic triangle
triangle hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
richard a
bartle original
original fiction
fiction hyperlink
salamanders hyperlink
hyperlink httphome
scribescribbles hyperlink
setisia hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
starving writer
writer hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
the talespinner
talespinner hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
the wonderful
wonderful world
world of
of bradley
bradley stoke
stoke hyperlink
com httpbradleystoke
xenacast original
original fiction
fiction hyperlink
zvis palm
palm jewish
jewish fiction
fiction page
page hyperlink
single authors
authors and
and sharing
millers site
site hyperlink
hyperlink httpblmiller
free novels
novels online
online hyperlink
hyperlink httpstarry
shoujoai canada
canada hyperlink
a room
room of
of her
her own
own a
a dynamic
dynamic anthology
anthology of
of lesbian
lesbian fiction
fiction hyperlink
aphelion webzine
webzine hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
the cobwebs
cobwebs short
short stories
stories hyperlink
dark lethe
lethe hyperlink
hyperlink httpreactivewriting
elfwood hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
free the
the writer
writer hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
ideaomancer hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
iyinkas original
original fiction
category iii
iii channels
channels to
to market
market third
third parties
parties who
who acquire
acquire rights
rights to
manufacture distribute
distribute and
and sell
sell print
print or
or electronic
electronic books
channels to
to market
market as
as mentioned
mentioned in
in the
the definition
definition of
of categories
categories is
is the
term increasingly
increasingly used
used to
to represent
represent the
the combination
combination of
of manufacture
distribution discovery
discovery and
and sales
sales mechanisms
mechanisms that
that is
is flourishing
flourishing on
on the
in the
the preinternet
preinternet print
print book
book world
world distribution
distribution of
of print
was tightly
tightly controlled
controlled by
by a
a few
few book
book wholesalers
wholesalers who
who supplied
supplied titles
from multiple
multiple publishers
publishers to
to sellers
sellers and
and institutions
institutions such
such as
as schools
and libraries
discovery of
of titles
titles was
was accomplished
accomplished primarily
primarily through
publishers advertising
advertising and
and marketing
marketing reviews
reviews compendia
compendia such
such as
as books
in print
print library
library catalogs
catalogs and
and browsing
browsing bookstore
bookstore shelves
pioneered the
the channels
channels to
to market
market concept
concept of
of providing
providing a
a mechanism
for consumers
consumers to
to find
find and
and order
order print
print titles
titles from
from multiple
multiple publishers
extending to
to used
used as
as well
well as
as new
new books
books and
and into
into other
other media
media including
electronic books
channels to
to market
market sites
sites contract
contract with
publishers and
and sometimes
sometimes publishing
publishing services
services to
to sell
sell print
print and
electronic books
books on
on their
their sites
sites in
in specific
specific formats
formats readable
readable on
specific devices
initially we
we had
had classified
classified channels
channels to
to market
market as
as a
a secondary
secondary type
type of
commercial publishing
publishing entity
entity along
along with
with primary
primary bornprint
bornprint and
borndigital publishers
publishers of
of electronic
electronic books
however toward
toward the
the end
end of
our analysis
analysis we
we put
put them
them in
in their
their own
own category
category because
because of
of the
increasing tendency
tendency of
of both
both commercial
commercial publishers
publishers and
and authors
authors who
who use
publishing services
services to
to be
be combined
combined in
in channels
channels to
to market
not all
channel to
to market
market sites
sites include
include books
books from
from publishing
publishing services
services but
amazon as
as one
one of
of the
the largest
largest channels
channels to
to market
market companies
companies does
does and
and for
numerous other
other publishing
publishing services
services it
it is
is a
a feebased
feebased alternative
authors can
can choose
as a
a result
result channels
channels to
to market
market are
are increasingly
including titles
titles from
from a
a mix
mix of
of publishing
publishing sources
in other
other words
authors who
who publish
publish their
their own
own work
work can
can be
be included
included in
in some
some of
of the
the most
used channels
channels to
to market
twentyseven channel
channel to
to market
market sites
sites were
were identified
identified in
in our
several examples
examples have
have been
been chosen
chosen for
for short
short descriptions
ebooks fictionwise
fictionwise netlibrary
netlibrary and
and overdrive
overdrive and
and mobipocket
mobipocket and
and kindle
store both
both amazon
amazon companies
companies and
and lightningsource
com calls
calls itself
itself the
the digital
digital bookstore
it sells
sells electronic
copies of
of print
print titles
titles and
and also
also borndigital
borndigital titles
it contracts
contracts with
publishers to
to buy
buy a
a nonexclusive
nonexclusive internet
internet right
right to
to digitally
digitally store
reproduce and
and transmit
transmit titles
titles royalties
royalties are
are paid
paid to
to the
the author
author through
the publisher
ebooks distributes
distributes books
books in
in adobe
adobe pdf
pdf and
and encrypts
encrypts books
using adobe
adobe content
content server
fictionwise an
an ebook
ebook and
and audiobook
audiobook publisher
publisher hyperlink
htm mentioned
mentioned earlier
earlier is
interesting because
because in
in addition
addition to
to contracting
contracting with
with publishers
publishers it
it will
contract directly
directly with
with authors
authors who
who have
have more
more than
than published
published print
it offers
offers books
books in
in unencrypted
unencrypted formats
formats and
and in
in adobe
adobe microsoft
and mobipocket
mobipocket secure
secure i
encrypted formats
netlibrary and
and overdrive
overdrive are
are examples
examples of
of companies
companies that
that do
do not
not sell
primarily to
to consumers
consumers but
but to
to third
third parties
netlibrary is
is the
the econtent
division of
of oclc
when accessing
accessing netlibrary
netlibrary from
from a
a member
member library
system the
the netlibrary
netlibrary site
site shows
shows the
the titles
titles owned
owned by
by the
the member
overdrive targets
targets multiple
multiple third
third parties
parties including
including libraries
libraries schools
retailers and
and enterprises
enterprises and
and tailors
tailors the
the product
product it
it sells
sells to
to each
overdrive also
also hosts
hosts the
the digital
digital media
media locator
locator hyperlink
com httpwww
com which
locates libraries
libraries that
that have
have contracted
contracted with
with overdrive
overdrive to
to provide
provide patrons
with free
free downloads
downloads of
of specific
specific titles
the locator
locator is
is a
a strategic
alliance with
with oclc
oclc utilizing
utilizing worldcat
mobipocket since
since an
an amazon
amazon company
company and
and amazon
amazon are
are examples
examples of
channel to
to market
market sites
sites that
that have
have their
their own
own branded
branded devices
devices but
but also
also act
as channels
channels for
for content
content for
for other
other devices
amazon has
has recently
introduced the
the kindle
kindle which
which has
has many
many of
of the
the features
features hyatt
hyatt mentioned
mentioned as
necessary for
for the
the one
one device
device that
that would
would spark
spark consumer
consumer interest
interest in
digital books
kindle downloads
downloads digital
digital content
content including
including books
newspapers magazines
magazines and
and blogs
blogs from
from the
the kindle
kindle store
store hyperlink
combieutfnode either
either directly
directly from
your kindle
kindle or
or from
from the
the amazon
amazon site
site to
to your
your kindle
kindle via
via wireless
device itself
itself is
is the
the size
size of
of a
a paperback
paperback book
experts and
and consumers
alike have
have varying
varying opinions
opinions of
of reading
reading quality
the fictionwise
fictionwise kindle
faq offers
offers insights
insights into
into amazons
amazons business
business decisions
decisions with
with regard
regard to
channels other
other than
than amazon
amazon for
for distributing
distributing to
to the
the kindle
kindle and
illustrates the
the jockeying
jockeying for
for position
position that
that now
now characterizes
characterizes the
the ebook
at this
this writing
writing in
in late
late january
january the
the amazon
amazon site
site lists
lists the
kindle as
as temporarily
temporarily out
out of
of stock
stock but
but is
is taking
taking orders
lightningsource httpswww
com describes
describes itself
itself as
demanddriven book
book manufacturing
manufacturing and
and distribution
distribution services
provide rapid
rapid printondemand
printondemand electronic
electronic book
book fulfillment
fulfillment services
services for
publishers to
to retailers
retailers and
and libraries
lightningsource is
is illustrative
of the
the emergence
emergence of
of a
a stream
stream of
of print
print pod
pod books
books from
from either
either print
print or
electronic files
files supplied
supplied by
by the
the publisher
publisher as
as well
well as
as electronic
electronic books
from digital
digital files
files provided
provided by
by the
the publisher
interestingly but
but perhaps
not surprisingly
surprisingly lightningsource
lightningsource is
is a
a subsidiary
subsidiary of
of ingram
ingram industries
owners of
of ingram
ingram book
book group
group one
one of
of the
the largest
largest wholesalers
wholesalers of
of books
books in
the united
united states
lightningsource does
does not
not reveal
reveal their
their criteria
criteria for
what and
and who
who constitutes
constitutes a
a publisher
publisher but
but it
it is
is highly
highly probably
probably that
small niche
niche publishers
publishers even
even individuals
individuals acting
acting as
as publishers
publishers can
can enter
the publishing
publishing arena
arena through
through lightningsource
according to
to the
lightningsource website
website they
they print
print a
a million
million books
books a
a month
month and
and the
average print
print run
run is
table vii
vii channel
channel to
to market
market sites
acls humanities
humanities ebook
ebook hyperlink
adobe digital
digital media
media store
com also
also distributes
distributes born
born digital
digital ebooks
aneas ebookstore
ebookstore httpwww
com audio
audio books
books httpwww
books on
on board
board httpwww
org ebooks
ebooks for
for the
the visually
visually impaired
impaired hyperlink
org httpwww
campus ebookstore
ebookstore hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
cartoon ebooks
ebooks httpwww
cyberread httpwww
diesel ebooks
ebooks httpwww
ebook mall
mall httpwww
com httpwww
ebooks from
from tess
tess httpwww
ebookslib also
also multilingual
multilingual also
also pod
pod hyperlink
com httpwww
com httpebooks
elibrary httpelibrary
com httpwww
com httpwww
memoware pda
pda bookstore
bookstore httpwww
mobipocket hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
netlibrary httpcompany
numilog ebooks
ebooks httpwww
powells books
books httpwww
tecknoquest hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
overdrive hyperlink
hyperlink httpwww
observations about
about shifts
shifts in
in book
book publishing
publishing practices
practices in
in the
the age
age of
a number
number of
of observations
observations can
can be
be made
made about
about emerging
emerging shifts
shifts in
in publishing
practices by
by looking
looking across
across the
the categories
categories analyzed
analyzed above
many of
of these
observations are
are not
not new
new to
to this
this paper
paper but
but they
they have
have arisen
arisen here
here from
empirical examination
examination of
of a
a large
large number
number of
of instances
instances and
and therefore
therefore they
provide some
some evidence
evidence toward
toward validation
validation of
of these
these shifts
while it
it is
is startlingly
startlingly clear
clear that
that the
the appearance
appearance of
of books
books in
in electronic
format either
either bornprint
bornprint or
or borndigital
borndigital and
and indeed
indeed the
the burgeoning
number of
of new
new borndigital
borndigital publishers
publishers is
is a
a major
major phenomenon
phenomenon occurring
on the
the internet
internet focusing
focusing only
only on
on electronic
electronic books
books masks
masks the
the reality
that reformatting
reformatting goes
goes in
in numerous
numerous directions
directions certainly
certainly from
from print
print to
various electronic
electronic forms
forms but
but also
also to
to audio
audio books
books and
and from
from digital
digital to
print enabled
enabled by
by pod
the growing
growing quality
quality and
and popularity
popularity of
of pod
pod and
and its
its growing
growing transparent
use by
by publishers
publishers either
either directly
directly or
or through
through services
services like
lightningsource and
and channels
channels to
to market
market like
like amazon
amazon is
is increasing
increasing the
number of
of print
print titles
titles available
available and
and diluting
diluting at
at least
least the
the traditional
notion of
of the
the technological
technological origins
origins of
of a
a printed
printed book
book and
and arguably
arguably the
traditional printpublisher
printpublisher based
based notion
notion of
of the
the book
book itself
popularity of
of pod
pod print
print copies
copies for
for authors
authors publishing
publishing their
their work
work through
publishing services
services also
also illustrates
illustrates that
that the
the flow
flow of
of formats
formats is
some channels
channels to
to market
market offer
offer format
format as
as a
a consumer
consumer choice
choice and
one may
may speculate
speculate that
that that
that trend
trend may
may continue
commercial channels
channels now
exist for
for the
the direct
direct ordering
ordering of
of pod
pod books
books by
by libraries
libraries schools
schools and
retailers although
although the
the extent
extent of
of their
their use
use is
is not
not clear
the impact
impact of
pod on
on book
book publishing
publishing is
is we
we believe
believe in
in its
its infancy
infancy and
and will
will have
possibly as
as dramatic
dramatic a
a change
change on
on publishing
publishing patterns
patterns and
and practices
practices as
electronic books
books are
are having
having now
shifts in
in publishing
publishing roles
our theoretical
theoretical model
model arose
arose out
out of
of notion
notion that
that component
component roles
roles of
publishing have
have shifted
shifted over
over historical
historical time
time from
from the
the rise
rise of
of the
western book
book and
and has
has directed
directed our
our attention
attention to
to dimensions
dimensions of
of these
shifts now
now occurring
occurring in
in the
the technological
technological economic
economic and
and sociocultural
environment of
of the
the internet
a central
central result
result of
of using
using the
the amended
adamsbarker definition
definition of
of a
a publisher
publisher was
was a
a clearer
clearer understanding
understanding of
the extent
extent to
to which
which authors
authors can
can act
act and
and are
are acting
acting as
as their
their own
publishers and
and making
making available
available a
a wide
wide variety
variety of
of books
books from
from products
that can
can not
not be
be distinguished
distinguished from
from the
the products
products of
of traditional
publishers in
in appearance
appearance and
and arguably
arguably in
in quality
quality to
to incomplete
informal and
and unfinished
unfinished explorations
explorations in
in writing
writing books
another central
central recognition
recognition for
for us
us was
was the
the extent
extent to
to which
which traditional
publishers patterns
patterns and
and roles
roles in
in manufacturer
manufacturer distribution
distribution and
and sales
are changing
the rise
rise of
of channel
channel to
to market
market services
services which
which offer
remanufacture reformatting
reformatting multipleformat
multipleformat distribution
distribution directly
directly to
customers or
or through
through third
third parties
parties and
and new
new marketing
marketing approaches
approaches through
interaction with
with authors
authors and
and readers
readers while
while not
not eliminating
publishers decisionmaking
decisionmaking certainly
certainly tends
tends toward
toward uncoupling
uncoupling or
expanding functions
functions that
that were
were once
once directly
directly controlled
controlled by
by publishers
standards of
of publishing
publishing practice
andrew keen
keen author
author of
of cult
cult of
of the
the amateur
amateur how
how the
the internet
internet is
killing our
our culture
culture is
is just
just one
one of
of many
many voices
voices who
who are
are concerned
concerned about
the loosening
loosening of
of standards
standards in
in publication
publication and
and public
public discourse
increasingly the
the fact
fact of
of publication
publication is
is not
not a
a promise
promise to
to the
the reader
that the
the book
book has
has been
been vetted
vetted by
by the
the writing
writing and
and editing
editing professional
elite who
who have
have dominated
dominated print
print publication
publication although
although many
many publishing
services either
either offer
offer or
or recommend
recommend the
the services
services of
of feebased
feebased publishing
the emergence
emergence of
of niche
niche publishing
publishing especially
especially in
in areas
that have
have not
not been
been well
well represented
represented in
in mainstream
mainstream publishing
publishing either
because of
of small
small market
market size
size or
or some
some form
form of
of stigmatization
stigmatization in
mainstream society
society can
can also
also be
be seen
seen as
as a
a loosening
loosening of
of the
the gate
gate keeping
role of
of mainstream
mainstream publishing
publishing in
in determining
determining the
the body
body of
of book
book content
available to
to the
the public
not everyone
everyone decries
decries this
this increasing
increasing inclusion
of previously
previously excluded
excluded content
content both
both in
in substance
substance and
and style
style but
but the
effects on
on society
society are
are certainly
certainly being
being vigorously
vigorously debated
many changes
changes are
are occurring
occurring in
in the
the cost
cost structure
structure of
of book
book publishing
which this
this study
study only
only hints
hints at
it seems
seems highly
highly likely
likely that
that arguably
lower entry
entry costs
costs for
for publication
publication of
of electronic
electronic books
books foster
foster the
expansion of
of electronic
electronic publishers
publishers that
that seems
seems to
to be
be occurring
we have
heard some
some evidence
evidence that
that the
the number
number of
of new
new print
print book
book publishers
publishers is
growing due
due in
in large
large part
part to
to lower
lower entry
entry costs
costs through
through pod
pod services
but that
that needs
needs confirming
certainly the
the cost
cost of
of distribution
distribution and
reaching markets
markets is
is being
being redistributed
redistributed not
not only
only in
in electronic
publication but
but in
in traditional
traditional print
print publishing
publishing as
as marketing
marketing support
support of
publishers of
of all
all kinds
kinds shifts
we have
have not
not seen
seen a
a definitive
definitive study
study of
of the
the costs
costs to
to the
the consumer
consumer of
electronic books
books the
the received
received wisdom
wisdom is
is that
that costs
costs of
of electronic
electronic books
are lower
lower but
but that
that needs
needs systematic
systematic documentation
although this
this study
uncovered numerous
numerous examples
examples of
of authors
authors who
who are
are distributing
distributing their
their work
for free
free the
the motivations
motivations are
are not
not clearly
clearly understood
understood surely
surely readership
and recognition
recognition is
is in
in the
the mix
mix but
but the
the extent
extent to
to which
which authors
authors see
subsidized publication
publication and
and free
free distribution
distribution as
as a
a path
path to
to recognition
recognition by
a traditional
traditional print
print publisher
publisher is
is uncertain
certainly well
well publicized
examples exist
exist but
but how
how frequently
frequently they
they occur
occur and
and how
how they
they affect
affect the
motivation for
for an
an author
author to
to self
self publish
publish is
is in
in our
our minds
minds still
discovery readership
readership and
and reception
reception and
and survival
in this
this arena
arena there
there are
are even
even more
more unanswered
unanswered questions
questions than
than in
in the
areas above
in the
the long
long tail
tail chris
chris anderson
anderson has
has extensively
extensively documented
the shift
shift from
from scarce
scarce resources
resources in
in all
all media
media to
to abundance
abundance and
and the
presence of
of many
many niche
niche products
products and
and markets
markets and
and he
he has
has suggested
suggested that
in an
an environment
environment of
of abundance
abundance and
and small
small niche
niche markets
markets the
the readers
ability to
to discover
discover titles
titles of
of potential
potential interest
interest to
to them
them is
is crucial
channels to
to market
market play
play an
an important
important role
role in
in discovery
discovery primarily
through the
the creation
creation of
of genre
genre lists
lists and
and search
search strategies
commercial publishers
publishers authors
authors channel
channel sites
sites and
and niche
niche interest
interest sites
of many
many varieties
varieties are
are experimenting
experimenting with
with social
social forms
forms of
of book
book discovery
reviews recommendations
recommendations blogs
blogs tagging
tagging and
and other
other ways
ways of
of sharing
sharing with
likeminded people
in the
the romance
romance arena
arena for
for example
example reviews
reviews on
popular sites
sites like
like coffee
coffee time
time romance
romance or
or romance
romance junkies
junkies cover
cover print
and electronic
electronic books
books in
in niche
niche markets
markets as
as well
well as
as mainstream
mainstream ones
an obvious
obvious question
question to
to ask
ask in
in view
view of
of the
the increasingly
increasingly abundant
abundant supply
of books
books is
is whether
whether they
they are
are finding
finding readers
andersons argument
argument in
terms of
of economics
economics is
is that
that a
a large
large number
number of
of small
small purchases
purchases in
in the
long tail
tail can
can be
be economically
economically viable
perhaps implied
implied in
in that
that assertion
is some
some restructuring
restructuring or
or shifting
shifting of
of economic
economic models
models of
of publishers
publishers and
channels to
to market
another question
question begging
begging for
for hard
hard data
data is
is how
how much
electronic books
books from
from whatever
whatever publishing
publishing source
source are
are being
being purchased
or borrowed
borrowed and
and read
survival of
of electronic
electronic and
and indeed
indeed pod
pod books
books is
is also
also a
a issue
issue that
raises more
more questions
questions than
than answers
answers as
as in
in all
all areas
areas of
of digital
john b
thompson documents
documents the
the struggles
struggles of
publishers to
to shift
shift from
from the
the mindset
mindset that
that their
their chief
chief asset
asset is
is a
published book
book in
in a
a warehouse
warehouse to
to understanding
understanding their
their assets
assets as
electronic files
files saved
saved and
and available
available in
in reformatable
reformatable condition
and the
debates around
around the
the preservation
preservation of
of ejournals
ejournals in
in an
an environment
environment where
access has
has shifted
shifted from
from ownership
ownership to
to licensing
licensing under
under restricted
conditions can
can be
be extended
extended to
to electronic
electronic books
books as
as can
can the
the ongoing
conversations of
of the
the longterm
longterm viability
viability of
of todays
todays electronic
future directions
this study
study is
is our
our initial
initial look
look at
at shifts
shifts in
in publishing
publishing practices
practices in
in the
age of
of the
the internet
internet and
and raises
raises many
many more
more questions
questions than
than it
it answers
of the
the observations
observations above
above and
and others
others needs
needs to
to be
be probed
probed in
in greater
datadriven studies
studies of
of all
all sorts
sorts will
will be
be useful
useful in
in documenting
the emerging
emerging dimensions
dimensions of
of shifts
shifts in
in book
book publishing
publishing in
in the
the st
adams t
barker n
a new
new model
model for
for the
the study
study of
of the
in n
barker ed
a potencie
potencie of
of life
life books
books in
in society
society pp
london british
british library
library and
and oak
oak knoll
knoll press
first published
published in
by the
the british
british library
anderson c
the long
long tail
choi c
got a
a manuscript
manuscript publishing
publishing now
now a
a snap
hyatt m
the death
death of
of the
the traditional
traditional book
working smart
hyperlink httpwww
keen a
cult of
of the
the amateur
amateur how
how the
the internet
internet is
is killing
killing culture
thompson j
books in
in the
the digital
digital age
cambridge uk
uk polity
category i
i book
book publishing
publishing entities
entities entities
entities or
or individuals
functioning as
as entities
entities who
who arrange
arrange to
to make
make books
books from
from multiple
multiple authors
available electronically
publishers of
of bornprint
bornprint books
books providing
providing electronic
electronic distribution
print to
to digital
publishers of
of bornelectronic
bornelectronic books
books some
some providing
providing pod
pod print
distribution digital
digital to
to print
category ii
ii author
author as
as publisher
publisher authors
authors themselves
themselves making
making the
the initial
decision to
to publish
publish their
their own
own work
using publishing
publishing services
using automated
automated publishing
publishing websites
using authorcreated
authorcreated and
and controlled
controlled website
website infrastructure
category iii
iii channels
channels to
to market
market thirdparties
thirdparties assisting
assisting publishers
publishers of
both types
types with
with a
a variety
variety of
of publishing
publishing functions
