eisenbergdirks p
taylors valueadded
valueadded model
model still
still relevant
relevant after
after all
all these
these years
mike eisenberg
eisenberg university
university of
of washington
lee dirks
dirks microsoft
microsoft corporation
february march
ucla los
los angeles
angeles ca
this paper
paper is
is an
an effort
effort to
to reacquaint
reacquaint the
the information
information field
field with
with the
the work
work of
of one
one of
of its
its pioneers
robert s
taylor and
and his
his valueadded
valueadded model
taylors valueadded
valueadded model
model was
was a
a broad
and ambitious
ambitious effort
effort to
to provide
provide a
a unified
unified framework
framework for
for focusing
focusing on
on user
user needs
needs and
and preferences
in evaluating
evaluating and
and designing
designing information
information systems
although developed
developed in
in the
the early
early s
before the
the widespread
widespread adoption
adoption of
of the
the microcomputer
microcomputer and
and wellbefore
wellbefore the
the internet
internet and
and web
based technologies
technologies that
that have
have so
so changed
changed our
our livesthe
livesthe model
model holds
holds up
up remarkably
remarkably well
well in
in terms
of explaining
explaining why
why various
various systems
systems and
and systems
systems attributes
attributes are
are useful
useful and
and desirable
desirable or
or not
the valueadded
valueadded model
model seeks
seeks to
to explain
explain what
what users
users want
want why
why they
they want
want them
them and
and how
systems are
are able
able to
to meet
meet or
or not
not meet
meet those
those needs
needs what
what do
do users
users want
want from
from information
systems that
that would
would enable
enable them
them to
to perform
perform better
better however
however better
better performance
performance is
is defined
defined in
their context
context taylor
taylor p
this paper
paper updates
updates taylors
taylors work
work in
in light
light of
of dramatic
developments over
over the
the past
past years
years and
and demonstrates
demonstrates how
how the
the model
model remains
remains highly
highly applicable
and valuable
valuable in
in both
both research
research and
and practical
practical contexts
contexts across
across the
the interests
interests of
of ischools
robert bob
bob taylor
taylor is
is wellknown
wellknown for
for his
his contributions
contributions to
to library
library and
and information
information science
paper question
question negotiation
negotiation and
and the
the reference
reference process
process taylor
taylor was
was one
one of
of the
first works
works to
to emphasize
emphasize a
a user
user and
and information
information perspective
it remains
remains one
one of
of the
the most
most cited
works in
in the
the history
history of
of library
library and
and information
information science
taylor was
was also
also a
a visionary
visionary and
and pioneer
in the
the movement
movement that
that led
led to
to the
the formation
formation of
of information
information schools
in the
the mids
mids he
he assumed
the deanship
deanship at
at syracuse
syracuse changed
changed the
the name
name to
to the
the school
school of
of information
information studies
studies and
and launched
their doctoral
doctoral program
program and
and later
later the
the masters
masters in
in information
information resources
resources management
finished his
his career
career with
with his
his work
work on
on the
the valueadded
valueadded model
the goals
goals of
of this
this paper
paper are
to reintroduce
reintroduce the
the field
field to
to taylors
taylors model
to suggest
suggest revisions
revisions to
to the
the model
model based
based on
on our
our experience
experience and
and our
our interactions
interactions with
information professionals
professionals and
and graduate
graduate students
to demonstrate
demonstrate the
the widespread
widespread applicability
applicability of
of the
the modified
modified model
model in
in current
current contexts
contexts to
better understanding
understanding users
users information
information systems
systems as
as well
well as
as the
the scope
scope of
of the
the information
to offer
offer recommendations
recommendations for
for further
further work
work to
to develop
develop and
and use
use the
the modified
modified model
we state
state this
this from
from personal
personal experience
experience in
in using
using taylors
taylors model
model in
in formal
formal presentations
presentations and
and graduate
graduate courses
for example
example a
a quick
quick cited
cited reference
reference search
search in
in the
the isi
isi web
web of
of knowledge
knowledge notes
notes citations
citations for
for the
college research
research libraries
libraries paper
eisenbergdirks p
the taylor
taylor model
model both
both the
the original
original and
and our
our proposed
proposed modified
modified model
model helps
helps explain
explain the
motivation of
of users
users why
why certain
certain systems
systems and
and systems
systems features
features perform
perform so
so well
well in
in meeting
meeting users
needs or
or not
not e
electronic spreadsheets
spreadsheets email
email google
google amazon
amazon gui
gui the
the web
web social
indeed we
we posit
posit that
that taylors
taylors model
model can
can and
and should
should help
help to
to guide
guide systems
systems design
user studies
studies marketing
marketing and
and entrepreneurship
entrepreneurship in
in information
information management
this last
last area
area may
may be
its most
most compelling
compelling use
entrepreneurs seeking
seeking to
to determine
determine new
new products
products and
and services
services can
utilize this
this updated
updated taylor
taylor model
model as
as a
a checklist
checklist for
for improving
improving enhancing
enhancing or
or developing
developing new
and more
more compelling
compelling information
information products
products and
and services
in this
this paper
paper we
we offer
offer the
the modified
taylor valueadded
valueadded model
model as
as a
a means
means to
to better
better understand
understand and
and explain
explain successful
entrepreneurship and
and innovation
the paper
paper closes
closes with
with an
an outline
outline for
for further
further development
development application
application and
and research
research of
of the
the taylor
the ischool
ischool community
community continues
continues to
to seek
seek ways
ways of
of explaining
explaining to
to wider
wider audiences
audiences what
what it
is that
that we
we do
do and
and why
why it
it is
is important
we believe
believe that
that in
in reacquainting
reacquainting the
the field
field with
with an
evolvedupdated view
view of
of taylors
taylors seminal
seminal work
work a
a functional
functional model
model will
will greatly
greatly facilitate
facilitate this
important effort
taylors valueadded
valueadded model
as noted
noted above
above the
the purpose
purpose of
of the
the valueadded
valueadded model
model was
was to
to provide
provide a
a framework
framework for
considering information
information and
and systems
systems from
from a
a user
user perspective
underlying the
the model
model are
are the
three foundation
foundation elements
elements of
of the
the information
information fieldpeople
fieldpeople information
information and
and technology
people the
the main
main focus
focus is
is on
on the
the user
systems exist
exist to
to meet
meet the
the information
information needs
needs of
additionally people
people can
can be
be viewed
viewed as
as part
part of
of the
the system
information there
there is
is a
a hierarchy
hierarchy of
of information
information the
the information
information spectrum
as value
is added
added we
we move
move up
up the
the spectrum
spectrum from
from data
data to
to information
information to
to knowledge
knowledge to
to action
systems the
the purpose
purpose of
of an
an information
information system
system is
is to
to add
add value
value to
to better
better meet
meet user
user needs
various systems
systems processes
processes add
add value
value in
in order
order to
to meet
meet user
user needs
taylor emphasized
emphasized that
that information
information systems
systems are
are all
all about
about meeting
meeting the
the needs
needs of
of users
and the
the underlying
underlying system
system processes
processes algorithms
algorithms and
and features
features exist
exist to
to add
add value
value in
in order
order to
to meet
those needs
the valueadded
valueadded model
model provides
provides an
an organized
organized framework
framework for
for considering
considering system
processes that
that add
add value
value in
in order
order to
to meet
meet user
user needs
taylors original
original value
value added
added framework
is presented
presented in
in figure
figure figure
from his
his book
book taylor
taylor p
eisenbergdirks p
figure taylors
taylors valueadded
valueadded model
from taylor
taylor table
user criteria
of choice
interface values
values added
system valueadded
valueadded processes
ease of
of use
interfacing i
i mediation
interfacing ii
ii orientation
physical accessibility
highlighting important
important terms
noise reduction
access i
i item
item identification
access ii
ii subject
subject description
access iii
iii subject
subject summary
vocabulary control
quality control
analyzing and
and comparing
comparing data
closeness to
to problem
provision of
of data
data manipulation
manipulation capabilities
ranking output
output for
for relevance
response speed
reduction of
of processing
processing time
lower connecttime
connecttime price
the first
first column
column on
on the
the left
left user
user criteria
criteria of
of choice
choice includes
includes the
the broad
broad categories
categories of
criteria that
that are
are important
important to
to users
users in
in choosing
choosing a
a system
system or
or in
in evaluating
evaluating how
how well
well a
a system
these criteria
criteria are
are not
not absolute
absolute or
or fixed
consider the
the different
different situations
situations of
of a
a senior
nasa scientist
scientist and
and a
a th
th grade
grade student
if both
both were
were using
using information
information systems
systems to
to seek
information about
about climate
climate change
change in
in the
the arctic
arctic the
the scientist
scientist might
might rate
rate quality
quality with
with the
associated values
values of
of currency
currency accuracy
accuracy and
and reliability
reliability as
as the
the top
top priority
for the
the th
th grader
ease of
of use
use with
with the
the value
value accessibility
accessibility or
or costsaving
costsaving might
might be
be as
as if
if not
not more
more important
relative priority
priority of
of one
one or
or another
another criteria
criteria will
will depend
depend on
on the
the person
person situation
situation needs
needs setting
and other
other usercentered
usercentered aspects
the second
second column
column labeled
labeled interface
interface values
values added
added includes
includes the
the more
more specific
specific values
that are
are added
added in
in order
order to
to best
best meet
meet the
the user
user criteria
criteria of
of choice
for example
example accuracy
comprehensiveness currency
currency reliability
reliability and
and validity
validity all
all can
can contribute
contribute to
to meeting
meeting the
the user
eisenbergdirks p
criterion quality
the user
user criteria
criteria noise
noise reduction
reduction relates
relates to
to values
values of
of access
access linkages
precision and
and selectivity
taylors last
last column
column is
is labeled
labeled system
system valueadded
valueadded processes
these are
are the
the processes
features and
and elements
elements of
of the
the system
system that
that add
add to
to the
the related
related values
values identified
identified in
in column
column which
in turn
turn meet
meet the
the user
user criteria
criteria of
of column
for example
example the
the processes
processes of
of quality
quality control
editing updating
updating and
and analyzing
analyzing may
may contribute
contribute to
to the
the values
values added
added of
of accuracy
comprehensiveness currency
currency reliability
reliability and
and validity
validity which
which then
then combine
combine to
to address
address the
the user
criterion of
of quality
as pointed
pointed out
out in
in the
the introduction
introduction this
this model
model was
was developed
developed well
well before
before many
many of
of the
technological changes
changes that
that have
have fundamentally
fundamentally altered
altered human
human society
society e
the personal
computer cell
cell phones
phones the
the internet
internet the
the world
world wide
wide web
however the
the model
model is
is robust
robust and
highly useful
useful in
in explaining
explaining why
why these
these and
and other
other technological
technological innovations
innovations are
are adopted
adopted and
valued by
by individuals
individuals and
and organizations
taylor explains
explains the
the intricacies
intricacies of
of the
the model
model and
and defines
defines various
various terms
terms in
in chapter
chapter of
of his
he also
also provides
provides a
a table
table of
of definitions
definitions of
of his
his identified
identified valuesadded
rather than
replicate taylors
taylors elaboration
elaboration here
here this
this paper
paper first
first presents
presents suggested
suggested modifications
modifications that
that clarify
and expand
expand the
the original
original valueadded
valueadded model
this is
is followed
followed by
by an
an abbreviated
abbreviated discussion
discussion of
user criteria
criteria values
values added
added and
and system
system processes
processes within
within the
the context
context of
of a
a suggested
suggested modified
valueadded model
eisenbergdirks modifications
modifications to
to taylors
taylors valueadded
valueadded model
the core
core of
of taylors
taylors model
model is
is represented
represented in
in figure
from his
his book
book reproduced
reproduced above
above as
our suggested
suggested modifications
modifications relate
relate to
to this
this figure
figure and
and are
are presented
presented below
below in
in figure
while we
we have
have shared
shared these
these modifications
modifications previously
previously with
with various
various audiences
audiences through
presentations this
this is
is the
the first
first recorded
recorded paper
paper outlining
outlining our
our thoughts
therefore we
we see
see these
these as
formative or
or proposed
proposed modifications
modifications and
and we
we expect
expect that
that feedback
feedback from
from readers
readers as
as well
well as
as from
our fieldbased
fieldbased investigations
investigations will
will help
help us
us to
to fashion
fashion a
a more
more complete
complete and
and conclusive
conclusive modified
value added
added model
in addition
addition we
we recognize
recognize the
the desirability
desirability of
of identifying
identifying analyzing
analyzing and
comparing frameworks
frameworks and
and models
models of
of fundamental
fundamental concepts
concepts of
of information
information systems
systems services
and behaviors
behaviors e
relevance credibility
credibility use
we expect
expect that
that this
this too
too will
will lead
lead to
to adjustments
in specific
specific elements
elements included
included in
in the
the modified
modified model
for example
example we
we anticipate
anticipate that
that advances
in the
the application
application of
of semantic
semantic technology
technology could
could have
have major
major implications
implications in
in the
the user
user criteria
criteria of
ease of
of use
use and
and noise
noise reduction
eisenbergdirks p
eisenbergdirks modified
modified taylors
taylors valueadded
valueadded model
model feb
based on
on table
taylor p
user criteria
values added
system processes
ease of
of use
noise reduction
item identification
controlled vocabulary
semantic connecting
quality control
data manipulation
manipulation capabilities
user profiling
informed consent
time saving
cost saving
parallel processing
server size
processor speed
resource allocationsharing
common protocols
protocols business
password protection
eisenbergdirks p
our first
first recommended
recommended changes
changes to
to taylors
taylors original
original model
model relate
relate to
to the
the overarching
overarching terminology
taylor presents
presents a
a three
three part
part view
view as
as the
the basis
basis for
for the
the model
model user
user interface
interface and
and system
the user
user part
part focus
focus on
on the
the problems
problems which
which establish
establish the
the criteria
criteria of
of choice
the interface
interface is
a negotiating
negotiating space
space between
between the
the user
user and
and the
the system
system and
and according
according to
to taylor
taylor displays
displays the
the values
added by
by the
the system
system to
to assist
assist the
the user
user in
in making
making choices
the system
system includes
includes the
the specific
processes that
that add
add specific
specific values
taylor p
these labels
labels can
can be
be difficult
difficult in
in explaining
explaining and
and applying
applying the
the model
model partially
partially because
because of
of using
using the
word values
values and
and term
term valueadded
valueadded in
in slightly
slightly different
different ways
ways in
in the
the same
same table
we therefore
offer a
a simplified
simplified labeling
labeling of
of the
the three
three part
part view
user criteria
system process
instead of
of user
user criteria
criteria of
of choice
choice its
its more
more direct
direct to
to simply
simply state
state user
user criteria
for column
two valuesadded
valuesadded encompasses
encompasses much
much more
more than
than just
just the
the interface
the term
term valuesadded
is still
still consistent
consistent with
with taylors
taylors description
description of
of these
these being
being the
the values
values added
added by
by the
the system
system which
aid customers
customers in
in matching
matching their
their needs
taylor p
lastly in
in his
his text
text taylor
taylor refers
refers to
valueadded processes
processes and
and system
system processes
processes interchangeably
system processes
processes is
is preferred
here as
as it
it avoids
avoids confusion
confusion with
with the
the valuesadded
valuesadded from
from column
column two
the use
use these
these terms
helps to
to emphasize
emphasize the
the relationships
relationships across
across the
the columns
columns of
of the
the model
that is
is various
various system
our second
second group
group of
of modifications
modifications involves
involves the
the more
more specific
specific elements
elements of
of the
the model
model in
in each
each of
the three
three columns
again while
while the
the original
original valueadded
valueadded model
model is
is still
still useful
useful for
for describing
and analyzing
analyzing current
current user
user and
and system
system interactions
interactions developments
developments over
over the
the past
past twenty
twenty years
point to
to additional
additional criteria
criteria and
and related
related values
values added
taylor himself
himself notes
notes that
that his
his criteria
criteria are
broken into
into six
six categories
categories for
for convenience
convenience sake
sake and
and are
are not
not graven
graven in
in stone
taylor p
we agree
agree with
with his
his statement
statement that
that they
they are
are a
a useful
useful way
way of
of organizing
organizing the
the values
values that
that are
are added
but we
we offer
offer a
a reformulation
reformulation of
of the
the last
last two
two criteria
criteria timesaving
timesaving and
and costsaving
costsaving under
under the
broader heading
heading of
of performance
we also
also propose
propose an
an additional
additional criterion
criterion pleasing
pleasing which
relates to
to the
the values
values of
of aesthetics
aesthetics entertaining
entertaining reward
reward and
and engaging
taylor sought
sought to
to derive
derive his
his criteria
criteria and
and values
values added
added from
from the
the literature
literature but
but found
found it
it equally
important to
to learn
learn from
from professional
professional experience
he found
found few
few studies
studies concerned
concerned directly
directly with
values and
and user
user benefits
benefits so
so he
he drew
drew on
on various
various formal
formal and
and informal
informal sources
at this
this point
point in
time our
our suggested
suggested modifications
modifications in
in criteria
criteria values
values added
added and
and system
system processes
processes derive
derive from
personal reflection
reflection and
and fieldbased
fieldbased experience
we recognize
recognize the
the importance
importance of
of comparing
comparing and
testing the
the modified
modified model
model in
in relation
relation to
to the
the literature
literature as
as well
well as
as through
through systematic
turning to
to column
column two
two now
now labeled
labeled simply
simply values
values added
added taylors
taylors original
original list
list is
is both
consolidated and
and expanded
here are
are some
some examples
for user
user criterion
criterion ease
ease of
of use
use taylor
taylor offers
offers mediation
mediation and
and orientation
orientation as
as two
two different
ways of
of interfacing
the modified
modified model
model focuses
focuses on
on each
each more
more separately
separately with
with the
value of
of mediation
mediation referring
referring to
to assistancehelp
assistancehelp and
and orientation
orientation for
for user
user familiarity
familiarity or
navigation with
with the
the system
the modified
modified model
model also
also recognizes
recognizes that
that the
the value
value of
accessibility is
is not
not just
just limited
limited to
to physical
physical but
but virtual
virtual as
as well
eisenbergdirks p
for noise
noise reduction
reduction the
the revised
revised model
model seeks
seeks to
to break
break out
out three
three values
values added
added nested
within the
the term
term access
the modified
modified model
model emphasizes
emphasizes item
item identification
classification and
and summarization
summarization as
as separate
separate values
values added
added while
while also
also offering
offering referral
and novelty
novelty as
as other
other values
values added
added to
to include
cost saving
saving and
and time
time saving
saving were
were criteria
criteria only
only minimally
minimally developed
developed in
in taylors
original conceptualization
cost saving
saving was
was also
also listed
listed as
as both
both a
a criterion
criterion and
and a
a value
the modified
modified model
model both
both of
of these
these are
are now
now considered
considered as
as values
values related
related to
to the
the broader
criterion of
of performance
we expect
expect further
further development
development of
of this
this important
important criterion
criterion in
terms of
of associated
associated values
values and
and system
system processes
security privacy
privacy and
and safety
safety are
are three
three identified
identified values
values added
added that
that are
increasingly important
security and
and safety
safety were
were determined
determined to
to best
best relate
relate to
to the
the newly
combined user
user criterion
criterion of
of performance
performance while
while privacy
privacy seemed
seemed increasingly
increasingly associated
with userdriven
userdriven desires
desires and
and therefore
therefore best
best associated
associated to
to adaptability
as noted
noted above
above pleasing
pleasing is
is a
a totally
totally new
new user
user criterion
criterion with
with associated
associated values
values added
of aesthetics
aesthetics entertaining
entertaining rewarding
rewarding and
and engaging
in certain
certain instances
instances the
the values
values identified
identified in
in values
values added
added can
can be
be applied
applied to
to different
different user
for example
example the
the value
value simplicity
simplicity relates
relates to
to both
both ease
ease of
of use
use and
and adaptability
addition the
the terms
terms relevance
relevance and
and usefulness
usefulness are
are broad
broad multidimensional
multidimensional concepts
concepts of
information and
and relate
relate to
to many
many of
of the
the user
user criteria
relevance and
and usefulness
usefulness may
may be
be viewed
viewed as
infused across
across the
the entire
entire modified
modified valueadded
valueadded model
in the
the book
book taylor
taylor included
included a
table of
of definitions
definitions of
of values
values added
added see
see page
page for
for all
all of
of the
the values
values included
included in
in the
the middle
we hope
hope to
to be
be able
able to
to do
do the
the same
same in
in a
a subsequent
subsequent paper
the third
third column
column system
system processes
processes provides
provides examples
examples of
of the
the capabilities
capabilities approaches
approaches and
features of
of systems
systems that
that might
might be
be used
used to
to add
add the
the values
values noted
noted in
in column
column to
to meet
meet the
the criteria
of users
users column
systems processes
processes are
are numerous
numerous and
and continually
continually being
being developed
taylors original
original model
model only
only includes
includes a
a small
small number
number of
of system
system processes
we attempted
attempted to
identify more
more however
however even
even these
these are
are only
only representative
representative of
of abundant
abundant options
for example
example although
although likely
likely inferred
inferred in
in taylors
taylors original
original work
work the
the concept
concept of
of navigating
connections via
via electronic
electronic links
links labeled
labeled as
as the
the system
system process
process hyperlinking
hyperlinking in
in the
the modified
model is
is now
now obvious
obvious and
and a
a critical
critical concept
concept for
for nearly
nearly all
all information
information systems
was conceived
conceived by
by computer
computer scientist
scientist ted
ted nelson
nelson in
in the
the s
s but
but it
it didnt
didnt gain
gain widespread
widespread use
until the
the development
development of
of the
the world
world wide
wide web
web by
by tim
tim bernerslee
bernerslee decades
decades later
still it
it is
is not
an exaggeration
exaggeration to
to say
say that
that this
this relatively
relatively recentlyimplemented
recentlyimplemented system
system processhyperlinking
is one
one of
of the
the most
most significant
significant of
of all
all system
system processes
processes because
because it
it is
is the
the foundation
foundation of
of the
the world
wide web
web our
our most
most pervasive
pervasive and
and now
now essential
essential information
information system
the modified
modified valueadded
valueadded model
model helps
helps to
to explain
explain why
why this
this is
is so
hyperlinking is
is a
a system
process that
that relates
relates to
to the
the values
values added
added of
of item
item identification
identification referral
referral precision
precision and
these values
values in
in turn
turn help
help to
to meet
meet the
the user
user criteria
criteria of
of noise
noise reduction
this may
seem strange
strange at
at first
first because
because the
the world
world wide
wide web
web is
is often
often criticized
criticized as
as noisy
noisy and
and contributing
contributing to
information overload
however thats
thats not
not due
due to
to hyperlinking
in fact
fact hyperlinking
hyperlinking helps
helps users
eisenbergdirks p
to sift
sift through
through the
the noise
noise by
by identifying
identifying items
items of
of interest
interest by
by referral
referral to
to precise
precise websites
websites or
sections of
of websites
websites or
or by
by allowing
allowing creation
creation of
of selected
selected links
links by
by website
website or
or content
content creators
the usefulness
usefulness of
of other
other information
information systems
systems are
are similarly
similarly explained
explained by
by the
the model
model by
by making
making the
connection to
to related
related values
values added
added in
in order
order to
to meet
meet identified
identified user
user criteria
consider cell
phones as
as an
an information
information system
for some
some people
people when
when choosing
choosing a
a phone
phone its
its the
the pleasing
criteria that
that are
are most
most important
for these
these users
users its
its important
important to
to emphasize
emphasize the
the values
values added
added of
aesthetics entertaining
entertaining or
or stimulating
these values
values are
are added
added by
by the
the systems
systems processes
processes of
design and
and interactivity
for other
other users
users its
its ease
ease of
of use
use thats
thats crucial
crucial and
and they
they are
are looking
for a
a cell
cell phone
phone that
that is
is simple
simple accessible
accessible and
and easy
easy to
to navigate
navigate through
through functions
functions i
system processes
processes of
of highlighting
highlighting formatting
formatting and
and simplifying
simplifying help
help to
to address
address these
values and
and criteria
for a
a final
final example
example we
we return
return to
to the
the situation
situation and
and needs
needs of
of the
the senior
senior nasa
nasa scientist
scientist and
and a
a th
grade student
student noted
noted earlier
earlier in
in this
this paper
both were
were seeking
seeking information
information about
about climate
climate change
change in
the arctic
for the
the scientist
scientist it
it is
is likely
likely to
to be
be all
all about
about quality
quality of
of information
information and
and the
the values
that meet
meet the
the quality
quality criterion
criterion are
are accuracy
accuracy currency
currency comprehensiveness
comprehensiveness authority
authority and
system processed
processed that
that address
address these
these values
values include
include quality
quality control
control in
in research
studies editing
editing and
and updating
updating of
of papers
papers and
and reports
reports analyzing
analyzing data
data sets
sets and
and selecting
selecting valid
valid and
reliable information
information from
from authoritative
authoritative sources
but the
the th
th grade
grade student
student has
has different
different needs
needs that
might relate
relate to
to ease
ease of
of use
use and
and also
also pleasing
system processes
processes of
of formatting
highlighting and
and simplifying
simplifying may
may add
add values
values of
of simplicity
simplicity accessibility
accessibility and
and simplicity
simplicity for
for ease
of use
for pleasing
pleasing there
there are
are processes
processes that
that provide
provide interactivity
interactivity and
and reinforcement
finally although
although we
we anticipate
anticipate the
the modified
modified valueadded
valueadded model
model to
to evolve
evolve in
in time
time we
we feel
feel that
there are
are varying
varying degrees
degrees to
to which
which each
each column
column may
may or
or may
may not
not change
for example
example the
the user
criteria column
column seems
seems sufficient
sufficient and
and complete
complete and
and unlikely
unlikely to
to change
change substantively
we made
only minor
minor modifications
modifications to
to the
the original
original concepts
concepts established
established by
by taylorcombining
taylorcombining cost
effective and
and time
time saving
saving into
into performance
performance and
and adding
adding the
the new
new criterion
criterion pleasing
valueadded column
column is
is somewhat
somewhat definitive
definitive but
but certainly
certainly not
not comprehensive
we expect
expect this
column will
will require
require some
some adjustment
adjustment and
and expansion
the most
most frequent
frequent changes
changes will
will take
take place
in the
the system
system processes
processes column
as with
with taylor
taylor this
this column
column is
is intended
intended to
to be
be representative
and to
to change
change as
as new
new system
system processes
processes and
and capabilities
capabilities emerge
applying the
the modified
modified valueadded
valueadded model
the sections
sections above
above presented
presented taylors
taylors original
original model
model and
and explained
explained our
our proposed
proposed modifications
we also
also attempted
attempted to
to demonstrate
demonstrate how
how the
the model
model can
can be
be used
used to
to explain
explain how
how different
information systems
systems can
can add
add value
value in
in order
order to
to meet
meet user
user needs
in our
our view
view the
the sustained
relevance of
of taylors
taylors valueadded
valueadded work
work is
is impressive
his concepts
concepts and
and framework
framework are
are as
applicable and
and useful
useful as
as they
they were
were twenty
twenty years
years ago
this section
section offers
offers thoughts
thoughts as
as to
to how
how the
modified valueadded
valueadded model
model is
is applicable
applicable and
and valuable
valuable in
in practical
practical and
and educational
educational contexts
practical applications
the role
role of
of information
information professionals
professionals has
has evolved
evolved dramatically
dramatically over
over the
the past
past plus
plus years
the everquickening
everquickening transition
transition from
from the
the information
information fields
fields past
past e
punch and
and catalog
catalog cards
cards to
the future
future e
xml and
and metadata
metadata the
the information
information manager
manager is
is now
now thrust
thrust into
into the
the forefront
forefront of
a multibillion
multibillion dollar
dollar information
information technology
technology industry
librarians and
and other
other traditional
information professionals
professionals are
are now
now competing
competing with
with major
major corporations
corporations and
and an
an entire
entire industry
industry of
eisenbergdirks p
information service
service and
and system
system providers
providers facilitating
facilitating access
access to
to information
this explosion
explosion of
the information
information role
role has
has evolved
evolved and
and will
will continue
continue to
to change
change and
and in
in this
this process
process information
professionals can
can continue
continue statusquo
statusquo or
or can
can take
take charge
charge and
and proactively
proactively adapt
adapt to
to address
address the
growing information
information needs
needs of
of endusers
in this
this new
new environment
environment this
this global
global connected
information marketplace
marketplace with
with a
a new
new level
level of
of attention
attention and
and scrutiny
scrutiny it
it is
is critical
critical for
for the
information profession
profession to
to take
take a
a new
new approach
the development
development of
of information
information systems
systems and
and the
the provision
provision of
of information
information services
services in
in industry
are fastpaced
fastpaced and
and everchanging
it is
is an
an extremely
extremely aggressive
aggressive marketplace
marketplace where
where competitive
differentiation and
and viable
viable substitutes
substitutes are
are apparent
apparent daily
in this
this setting
setting the
the availability
availability of
of a
simple framework
framework that
that can
can be
be used
used to
to brainstorm
brainstorm and
and assess
assess potential
potential ideas
ideas is
is an
an extremely
valuable resource
using the
the modified
modified valueadded
valueadded model
model to
to evaluate
evaluate and
and reevaluate
information systems
systems allows
allows the
the information
information professional
professional a
a way
way to
to test
test and
and improve
improve services
services and
resources in
in terms
terms of
of meeting
meeting users
users needs
the consistent
consistent focused
focused application
application of
of this
this model
will result
result in
in improved
improved offerings
offerings more
more successful
successful systems
systems and
and tools
tools resulting
resulting in
in higher
these types
types of
of benefits
benefits can
can have
have impact
impact on
on all
all sectors
sectors not
not just
just private
private industry
shifting from
from the
the private
private sector
sector it
it is
is crucial
crucial that
that information
information professionals
professionals in
in the
the public
public sector
utilize this
this framework
framework as
as a
a tool
tool as
as well
whatever setting
setting one
one is
is in
in the
the new
new concept
concept of
infopreneurship is
is taking
taking on
on greater
greater significance
for example
example assume
assume an
an aerospace
aerospace engineer
engineer is
is working
working on
on a
a new
new project
for her
her the
the most
important user
user criteria
criteria is
is quality
an information
information professional
professional seeking
seeking to
to assist
assist this
this user
user could
consider the
the values
values options
options noted
noted in
in the
the middle
middle column
column e
accuracy comprehensiveness
currency reliability
reliability etc
and begin
begin to
to think
think about
about how
how to
to add
add these
these values
values given
given the
information set
set or
or the
the systems
systems available
if the
the available
available systems
systems are
are not
not able
able to
to meet
meet the
the desired
values other
other systems
systems or
or services
services can
can be
be brought
brought into
into play
in this
this way
way each
each of
of the
the first
first two
columns of
of the
the modified
modified valueadded
valueadded model
model serve
serve as
as useful
useful pivots
pivots that
that provide
provide information
professionals or
or managers
managers a
a framework
framework for
for considering
considering possible
possible products
products services
services or
or systems
systems to
from an
an industry
industry perspective
perspective the
the modified
modified valueadded
valueadded model
model can
can be
be applied
applied in
in at
at least
least three
developing new
new systems
systems tools
tools if
if charged
charged with
with developing
developing a
a whole
whole new
new information
product or
or information
information service
service from
from scratch
scratch the
the modified
modified valueadded
valueadded model
model can
can provide
provide a
thorough defined
defined way
way of
of vetting
vetting potential
potential ideas
ideas on
on top
top of
of whatever
whatever information
information source
source you
are working
working with
scenario two
two business
business partners
partners are
are considering
considering the
the creation
creation of
of a
a brand
brand new
new online
travel guide
they can
can consider
consider the
the user
user criteria
criteria of
of quality
quality and
and then
then analyze
analyze at
at the
different value
value added
added options
it is
is important
important to
to keep
keep in
in mind
mind that
that each
each value
value added
can be
be considered
considered to
to have
have a
a broad
broad range
range of
of choices
value added
of the
the quality
quality range
of the
the quality
quality range
editors vetting
vetting or
or factchecking
data prior
prior to
to publishing
established human
human quality
control process
content is
is sourced
sourced from
automatically redirecting
information feed
feed from
another source
source without
content only
only acquired
acquired from
from a
eisenbergdirks p
multiple definitive
definitive sources
sources on
on a
global basis
website content
content is
is updated
updated real
time as
as changes
changes occur
occur updates
are automatic
links on
on the
the site
site are
automatically checked
checked nightly
and are
are deleted
deleted if
if not
single source
source from
from the
the us
website content
content is
is updated
manually twice
twice a
a week
system doesnt
doesnt permit
automatic link
link checking
checking so
this is
is a
a manual
manual process
note in
in the
the above
above example
example automatic
automatic vs
manual is
is an
an important
important distinction
distinction between
between the
the two
two fictitious
product offerings
offerings if
if some
some cases
cases automatic
automatic is
is highquality
highquality because
because it
it is
is instantaneous
instantaneous whereas
whereas in
in other
cases it
it can
can be
be lowquality
lowquality since
since it
it has
has no
no humaneditorial
humaneditorial review
in this
this way
way you
you can
can see
see the
the duediligence
that needs
needs to
to go
go into
into the
the valueadded
valueadded assessment
assessment process
refining improving
improving existing
existing tools
tools likewise
likewise if
if the
the goal
goal is
is to
to assess
assess and
and improve
improve and
existing offering
offering this
this model
model can
can help
help to
to develop
develop scenarios
scenarios to
to generate
generate and
and test
test such
following the
the scenario
scenario above
above once
once the
the small
small firms
firms online
online travel
travel website
was doing
doing well
well and
and the
the partners
partners need
need to
to innovate
innovate to
to attract
attract new
new customers
customers or
or lure
lure customer
away from
from a
a competitor
competitor they
they can
can look
look at
at possible
possible ways
ways to
to enhance
enhance your
your existing
existing services
scenario focusing
focusing on
on the
the adaptability
adaptability here
here are
are some
some possible
possible ideas
ideas on
on how
how to
brainstorm new
new ideas
ideas for
for the
the existing
existing version
version of
of the
the travel
travel website
potential service
service enhancement
website knows
knows if
if users
users are
are accessing
accessing the
the site
site from
from a
a nonus
domain and
and is
is able
able to
to highlight
highlight localregional
localregional travel
travel tips
depending on
on your
your location
website knows
knows if
if users
users are
are accessing
accessing via
via a
a pc
pc or
or a
a mobile
mobile device
and automatically
automatically adjusts
adjusts content
content to
to the
the appropriate
appropriate screensize
if users
users repeat
repeat the
the same
same trip
trip on
on a
a regular
regular basis
basis website
website allows
you to
to replicate
replicate the
the itinerary
itinerary automatically
automatically to
to facilitate
facilitate future
users are
are able
able to
to login
login to
to a
a private
private section
section where
where they
they can
can save
trip itineraries
itineraries or
or bookmark
bookmark favorite
favorite travel
travel recommendations
recommendations etc
studying competitive
competitive offerings
offerings even
even if
if the
the immediate
immediate goal
goal isnt
isnt to
to produce
produce an
an offering
offering but
instead to
to better
better understand
understand and
and assess
assess what
what directions
directions other
other products
products and
and services
services might
might be
taking one
one could
could utilize
utilize this
this same
same approach
approach with
with the
the intent
intent of
of exhaustively
exhaustively listing
listing out
out future
developments by
by other
other players
players in
in the
the space
the key
key is
is to
to use
use the
the modified
modified valueadded
valueadded model
to systematically
systematically identify
identify user
user needs
needs and
and preferences
preferences the
the values
values that
that will
will meet
meet those
those preferences
and the
the system
system process
process that
that will
will add
add the
the desired
desired values
the model
model facilitates
facilitates prioritization
prioritization by
providing a
a framework
framework linking
linking user
user needs
needs values
values and
and system
system processes
processes as
as well
well as
as specific
specific items
within each
eisenbergdirks p
for businesses
businesses and
and organizations
organizations the
the modified
modified valueadded
valueadded model
model can
can systematically
systematically assist
assist in
assessing and
and understanding
the landscape
landscape of
of environmentmarketspace
varying usercustomer
usercustomer needs
needs and
and potential
potential productservice
productservice requirements
other competitors
competitors andor
andor substitutes
substitutes that
that are
are present
existing offerings
offerings to
to help
help define
define new
new functionality
functionality and
and why
why it
it should
should be
be successful
educational applications
information school
school graduates
graduates need
need to
to be
be prepared
prepared to
to enter
enter a
a marketplace
marketplace of
of everincreasing
either as
as employees
employees in
in a
a private
private sector
sector business
business or
or a
a public
public sector
sector organization
including libraries
libraries all
all areas
areas are
are now
now competing
competing against
against new
new forces
forces in
in our
our traditional
traditional realm
namely corporate
corporate entities
entities such
such as
as google
google or
or microsoft
microsoft who
who are
are facilitating
facilitating access
access to
to an
an evergrowing
evergrowing volume
volume of
of information
it is
is critical
critical that
that we
we prepare
prepare students
students to
to learn
learn to
to vie
vie for
for the
the time
and attention
attention of
of informationseekers
informationseekers to
to evolve
evolve our
our approach
how that
that approach
approach is
is manifest
itself has
has changed
changed dramatically
dramatically in
in the
the past
past years
years and
and will
will need
need to
to continue
continue to
to evolve
evolve to
keep pace
pace with
with the
the developments
developments in
in the
the marketplace
marketplace as
as well
well as
as the
the needs
needs of
of end
end users
users seeking
information for
for their
their daily
daily tasks
students benefit
benefit from
from a
a more
more systematic
systematic approach
approach that
that includes
includes an
an enhanced
enhanced serviceorientation
and an
an overall
overall greater
greater entrepreneurial
entrepreneurial tact
taylors modified
modified valueadded
valueadded model
model is
is a
a prime
example of
of the
the sorts
sorts of
of tools
tools and
and resources
resources that
that need
need to
to be
be developed
developed tested
tested utilized
utilized and
evangelized across
across our
our profession
only in
in this
this way
way can
can we
we hope
hope to
to ensure
ensure our
our students
students are
are wellpositioned
wellpositioned for
for success
success in
in the
the job
job market
over the
the past
past three
three years
years at
at the
the university
university of
of washington
washington both
both authors
authors have
have successfully
successfully used
the modified
modified taylor
taylor model
model in
in both
both undergraduate
undergraduate and
and graduatelevel
graduatelevel classes
classes including
foundations of
of informatics
informatics human
human aspects
aspects of
of information
information systems
systems and
and the
the life
life cycle
cycle of
we find
find that
that the
the model
model helps
helps students
students to
to move
move from
from theoretical
theoretical understandings
understandings of
the user
user perspective
perspective to
to a
a something
something more
more tangible
students are
are able
able to
to apply
apply the
the model
model to
to a
range of
of user
user use
use and
and systems
systems situations
situations including
persons selecting
selecting a
a cell
cell phone
phone or
or mobile
mobile device
the merits
merits and
and limitations
limitations of
of car
car dashboard
dashboard layouts
comparison of
of search
search engines
students in
in distance
distance learning
learning courses
sports information
information systems
a typical
typical class
class exercise
exercise lab
lab or
or assignment
assignment related
related to
to the
the valueadded
valueadded model
model requires
requires students
to be
be able
able to
to complete
complete the
the following
identify an
an information
information situation
situation involving
involving users
users needs
needs and
and information
information systems
describe the
the situation
situation and
and use
use from
from a
a systems
systems inputprocessoutput
inputprocessoutput perspective
describe the
the situation
situation from
from a
a user
user perspective
analyze the
the situation
situation in
in terms
terms of
user criteria
values added
system processes
eisenbergdirks p
in every
every instance
instance using
using the
the modified
modified valueadded
valueadded model
model to
to analyze
analyze of
of users
users situations
situations needs
and systems
systems result
result in
in rich
rich discussion
discussion and
and brainstorming
brainstorming with
with students
applying the
the model
model also
seems to
to engage
engage them
them to
to think
think in
in a
a more
more systematic
systematic and
and entrepreneurial
entrepreneurial manner
future work
as noted
noted at
at the
the outset
outset this
this paper
paper seeks
seeks to
to reintroduce
reintroduce taylors
taylors valueadded
valueadded model
model because
because of
its usefulness
usefulness as
as a
a framework
framework for
for focusing
focusing on
on user
user needs
needs and
and preferences
preferences in
in evaluating
evaluating and
designing information
information systems
through analysis
analysis reflection
reflection and
and explanation
explanation we
we attempted
attempted to
demonstrate how
how a
a modified
modified valueadded
valueadded model
model remains
remains highly
highly applicable
applicable and
and valuable
valuable in
practical and
and educational
educational contexts
in terms
terms of
of research
research there
there is
is considerable
considerable work
work to
to be
be done
done in
in terms
terms of
of further
further developing
developing and
refining the
the modified
modified valueadded
valueadded model
model applying
applying and
and testing
testing the
the model
model across
across situations
and using
using the
the model
model in
in research
research studies
studies to
to better
better understand
understand users
users needs
needs and
and systems
addition we
we are
are particularly
particularly interested
interested in
in studying
studying innovation
innovation and
and entrepreneurship
entrepreneurship from
from a
valueadded perspective
lastly we
we hope
hope to
to more
more systematically
systematically determining
determining the
the usefulness
and impact
impact of
of the
the model
model in
in information
information school
school educational
educational programs
further development
development and
and refinement
refinement of
of the
the modified
modified valueadded
valueadded model
model involves
involves delving
deeper in
in to
to the
the literature
literature to
to make
make connections
connections between
between the
the valueadded
valueadded model
model and
and other
conceptualizations of
of key
key concepts
concepts and
and understandings
understandings in
in information
information science
science e
and schamber
schamber on
on relevance
relevance metzger
metzger on
on credibility
there is
is also
literature to
to consult
consult related
related to
to information
information behavior
behavior and
and information
information management
we also
encourage others
others to
to share
share insights
insights on
on this
this paper
we are
are considering
considering setting
setting up
up a
a wikipedia
entry on
on taylors
taylors valueadded
valueadded model
model in
in order
order to
to facilitate
facilitate interaction
interaction and
and discussion
discussion and
and to
publicly and
and collectively
collectively further
further develop
develop the
the model
we also
also encourage
encourage others
others to
to engage
engage in
followup studies
studies and
and share
share results
results with
with us
us and
and through
through various
various forms
forms of
of publication
our preference
preference for
for applying
applying and
and testing
testing the
the model
model across
across situations
situations involves
involves fieldbased
fieldbased research
in businesses
businesses particularly
particularly information
information oriented
oriented startup
startup companies
we envision
envision both
both qualitative
case study
study approaches
approaches as
as well
well as
as qualitative
qualitative data
data gathering
gathering related
related to
to users
users and
and situations
situations in
terms of
of user
user criteria
criteria values
values added
added and
and system
system processes
here too
too we
we hope
hope that
that other
researchers will
will consider
consider using
using the
the model
model in
in user
user behavior
behavior and
and systems
systems studies
development and
and research
research related
related to
to educational
educational programs
programs will
will involve
involve working
working with
with faculty
faculty and
students across
across information
information schools
schools programs
programs and
and courses
this paper
paper is
is a
a first
first effort
effort to
to share
our thoughts
thoughts and
and experiences
experiences with
with the
the broader
broader information
information field
field and
and education
education community
hope is
is that
that this
this paper
paper will
will serve
serve to
to raise
raise interest
interest in
in using
using the
the model
model in
in courses
courses and
and programs
there is
is interest
interest we
we would
would be
be interested
interested in
in forming
forming an
an online
online community
community interested
interested in
in sharing
ideas materials
materials and
and approaches
this might
might be
be followed
followed by
by a
a systematic
systematic study
study of
of the
the usefulness
and impact
impact of
of the
the model
model in
in information
information education
education programs
eisenbergdirks p
metzger miriam
miriam m
making sense
sense of
of credibility
credibility on
on the
the web
web models
models for
for evaluating
online information
information and
and recommendations
recommendations for
for future
future research
research journal
journal of
of the
the american
american society
for information
information science
science and
and technology
hoboken nov
saracevic tefko
relevance a
a review
review of
of the
the literature
literature and
and a
a framework
framework for
for thinking
thinking on
the notion
notion in
in information
information science
part ii
ii nature
nature and
and manifestations
manifestations of
of relevance
relevance journal
journal of
of the
american society
society for
for information
information science
science and
and technology
hoboken nov
schamber linda
relevance and
and information
information behavior
behavior in
in annual
annual review
review of
information science
science and
and technology
technology v
learned information
taylor robert
robert s
question negotiation
negotiation and
and the
the reference
reference process
process college
college research
taylor robert
robert s
value added
added processes
processes in
in information
information systems
systems norwood
norwood nj
nj ablex
michael b
dean emeritus
emeritus and
and professor
the information
information school
school of
of the
the university
university of
box seattle
seattle wa
lee dirks
director scholarly
scholarly communication
technical computing
computing external
external research
microsoft corporation
redmond wa
