the dschool
dschool in
in the
the ischool
ischool hci
hci and
and design
design research
carroll s
haynes f
ritter m
rosson x
college of
of information
information sciences
sciences and
and technology
the pennsylvania
pennsylvania state
state university
in the
the context
context of
of a
a campuswide
campuswide strategic
strategic planning
planning process
process we
we have
have been
asked to
to frame
frame the
the special
special role
role of
of penn
penn states
states center
center for
humancomputer interaction
interaction chci
chci within
within the
the college
college of
of information
sciences and
and technology
technology ist
our response
response is
is that
that hci
hci should
should fulfill
an important
important role
role as
as a
a focus
focus for
for design
design research
research within
within our
our ischool
support for
for this
this response
response we
we explore
explore the
the following
following propositions
design research
research and
and design
design science
science are
are essential
essential to
to ischools
hci is
is historically
historically currently
currently and
and inherently
inherently a
a design
design science
science of
the just
just right
right sort
sort to
to contribute
contribute to
to ischools
other constituenciessubunits
constituenciessubunits of
of ischools
ischools cs
cs is
is lis
lis sts
sts are
are not
design sciences
sciences but
but benefit
benefit from
from organizational
organizational proximity
proximity of
of hci
hci design
in this
this brief
brief paper
paper we
we sketch
sketch the
the argument
argument entailed
entailed by
by these
our objective
objective is
is to
to better
better understand
understand and
and articulate
articulate the
role of
of hci
hci and
and design
design research
research in
in ischools
design research
research is
is essential
essential to
to ischools
ischools span
span the
the information
information disciplines
disciplines to
to comprehensively
comprehensively address
issues ranging
ranging from
from image
image processing
processing to
to social
social policy
in this
this vast
spectrum designdefined
designdefined here
here as
as materializing
materializing information
information to
to support
human activityis
activityis a
a fulcrum
one cannot
cannot talk
talk about
about information
processing storage
storage and
and retrieval
retrieval information
information behavior
behavior the
the use
use of
information in
in groups
groups organizations
organizations or
or in
in society
society or
or information
economics policy
policy and
and regulation
regulation without
without making
making strong
strong and
and substantive
assumptions about
about the
the specific
specific ways
ways that
that information
information can
can be
be presented
presented to
and manipulated
manipulated by
by people
indeed whenever
whenever there
there is
is evolution
evolution in
in user
interfaces and
and application
application services
services other
other concepts
concepts and
and relations
throughout information
information science
science must
must be
be rethought
there are
are perfectly
perfectly coherent
coherent and
and timetested
timetested information
information disciplines
that eschew
eschew a
a central
central concern
concern with
with design
design as
as we
we define
define it
the core
core of
computer science
science cs
cs is
is focused
focused on
on information
information processing
processing storage
storage and
retrieval presentation
presentation and
and manipulation
manipulation of
of information
information by
by people
people and
the design
design process
process itself
itself are
are peripheral
peripheral topics
topics in
in cs
information science
science lis
lis has
has traditionally
traditionally focused
focused on
on information
retrieval and
and information
information seeking
seeking at
at the
the individual
individual level
level while
information systems
systems is
is has
has focused
focused on
on organizational
organizational processes
processes and
and the
impacts of
of information
information access
access and
and use
but neither
neither has
has focused
focused on
framing and
and implementing
implementing specific
specific design
design strategies
strategies to
to ameliorate
ameliorate or
enhance observed
observed circumstances
circumstances through
through transforming
transforming humancomputer
the broad
broad vision
vision of
of ischools
ischools requires
requires coordination
coordination of
of understanding
information structures
structures needs
needs and
and impacts
impacts with
with the
the design
design of
of new
humancomputer interactions
design and
and the
the artifacts
artifacts that
that result
result from
design activity
activity represent
represent an
an important
important class
class of
of boundary
boundary objects
objects for
knowledge and
and technology
technology transfer
transfer between
between disciplines
disciplines and
and between
academe and
and industrygovernment
designs integrate
integrate and
and reify
reify theory
theory and
empirical knowledge
knowledge into
into technologies
technologies that
that can
can be
be exchanged
implemented and
and their
their effects
effects assessed
assessed within
within different
different contexts
contexts and
from different
different perspectives
similarly designs
designs and
and artifacts
artifacts help
demonstrate the
the potential
potential utility
utility of
of research
research products
hci is
is the
the right
right kind
kind of
of design
design science
until the
the emergence
emergence of
of hci
hci during
during the
the s
s the
the roles
roles for
for social
cognitive and
and behavioral
behavioral science
science within
within technology
technology development
development were
were few
and marginal
the discipline
discipline of
of human
human factors
factors institutionalized
institutionalized within
industrial engineering
engineering or
or applied
applied psychology
psychology emerged
emerged a
a generation
before hci
hci but
but it
it was
was most
most concerned
concerned with
with human
human performance
performance and
experience with
with existing
existing technology
technology tools
tools and
and systems
systems and
and focused
focused on
artifacts with
with limited
limited information
information content
content e
stairs furniture
physical tools
this evaluation
evaluation role
role was
was often
often positioned
positioned too
too late
late in
the system
system development
development process
process to
to have
have more
more than
than minor
minor effects
effects on
on the
design of
of the
the technology
technology or
or on
on the
the core
core applications
applications of
of technology
science and
and technology
technology studies
studies sts
sts institutionalized
institutionalized variously
variously in
philosophy and
and sociology
sociology lis
lis typically
typically a
a standalone
standalone academic
academic unit
some of
of which
which have
have developed
developed into
into ischools
ischools communication
communication studies
studies and
is institutionalized
institutionalized in
in business
business schools
schools all
all have
have provided
descriptions of
of how
how technology
technology is
is utilized
utilized across
across a
a broad
broad range
range of
significant organizational
organizational and
and utilitarian
utilitarian contexts
particularly in
in the
case of
of sts
sts these
these were
were often
often rich
rich analyses
analyses of
of how
how new
new technology
technology is
shaped by
by use
use and
and how
how it
it reciprocally
reciprocally shapes
shapes human
human practices
relationships and
and institutions
such efforts
efforts contribute
contribute much
much to
understanding the
the context
context of
of information
information technology
technology design
design problems
problems and
solutions but
but they
they are
are even
even more
more distant
distant from
from the
the activities
activities of
of system
design and
and development
development than
than human
human factors
factors efforts
and unfortunately
technologists were
were largely
largely unaware
unaware that
that these
these fields
fields of
of interest
interest even
in this
this context
context hci
hci is
is quite
quite novel
it has
has been
been most
most often
institutionalized as
as an
an adjunct
adjunct to
to sometimes
sometimes even
even within
within computer
its research
research methods
methods integrate
integrate the
the creation
creation of
of new
new techniques
technology and
and applications
applications with
with iterative
iterative and
and formative
formative evaluation
evaluation of
their immediate
immediate and
and indirect
indirect impacts
impacts on
on collective
collective and
and individual
individual human
activity and
and experience
the close
close coordination
coordination of
of creating
creating innovative
technology and
and assessing
assessing its
its consequences
consequences for
for human
human activity
activity has
has proven
very successful
successful and
and has
has led
led to
to transformative
transformative applicationsdesktop
user interfaces
interfaces the
the mouse
mouse and
and carefully
carefully engineered
engineered pointing
pointing devices
hypermedia online
online information
information a
a variety
variety of
of information
information visualizations
high quality
quality synthetic
synthetic speech
speech and
and levels
levels of
of user
user control
control of
of software
systems that
that were
were unimaginable
unimaginable two
two decades
decades ago
indeed a
a paradigm
paradigm of
of innovation
innovation and
and application
application of
of interactive
technologies cyclically
cyclically coupled
coupled to
to improvisation
improvisation and
and assessment
assessment in
in human
activity has
has been
been incorporated
incorporated into
into academic
academic programs
programs in
in geoscience
is cs
cs lis
lis and
and ischools
ischools and
and is
is generally
generally called
called hci
however this
paradigm is
is not
not itself
itself a
a discipline
discipline and
and when
when it
it is
is incorporated
incorporated into
specific information
information technology
technology disciplines
disciplines and
and projects
projects it
it is
is typically
narrowed to
to the
the scope
scope of
of that
that discipline
discipline or
or project
for example
example hci
hci in
cs most
most typically
typically means
means research
research on
on software
software architectures
architectures or
or tools
tools that
enable new
new user
user interface
interface techniques
we propose
propose that
that only
only in
in ischools
can hci
hci operate
operate with
with the
the appropriate
appropriate scope
scope to
to be
be effective
effective as
as a
a design
science see
see also
also carroll
carroll et
et al
other ischool
ischool constituencies
constituencies benefit
incorporating hci
hci into
into ischools
ischools yields
yields many
many benefits
benefits for
for other
other ischool
constituencies while
while at
at the
the same
same time
time broadening
broadening and
and enriching
enriching hci
design research
already the
the combination
combination of
of hci
hci and
and lis
lis in
in ischools
ischools has
led to
to richer
richer conceptions
conceptions of
of humancentered
humancentered design
design that
that encompass
encompass both
the measurement
measurement orientation
orientation of
of hci
hci and
and the
the integration
integration of
of information
organization technology
technology policy
policy and
and culture
culture of
of lis
the interaction
interaction of
hci with
with community
community informatics
informatics has
has promoted
promoted design
design research
research that
addresses new
new sorts
sorts of
of public
public access
access information
information systems
systems and
and has
produced a
a more
more finely
finely articulated
articulated view
view of
of people
people as
as the
the central
central factor
in the
the interactions
interactions between
between people
people information
information and
and technology
technology at
different levels
levels of
of social
social aggregation
traditional cs
cs research
research considers
considers underlying
underlying technologies
technologies but
but rarely
addresses design
design in
in the
the sense
sense of
of envisioning
envisioning new
new tools
tools and
and activities
for people
instead cs
cs design
design efforts
efforts are
are more
more likely
likely to
to lead
lead to
selfconsistent functionality
functionality with
with unknown
unknown implications
implications for
for people
people and
their activity
activity e
a programming
programming language
language or
or perhaps
perhaps to
to a
proofofconcept prototype
prototype application
application that
that demonstrates
demonstrates a
a plausible
plausible use
of a
a novel
novel technology
technology or
or technique
incorporating hci
hci expertise
expertise in
in such
work ensures
ensures that
that the
the design
design of
of effective
effective applications
applications is
is a
a firstorder
concern and
and helps
helps to
to coordinate
coordinate the
the development
development of
of new
new technologies
with new
new measurement
measurement techniques
techniques they
they necessitate
is has
has an
an inherent
inherent orientation
orientation toward
toward action
action science
science and
and affecting
change but
but generally
generally has
has accomplished
accomplished this
this through
through organizational
interventions of
of training
training management
management and
and technology
technology acquisition
ability to
to design
design and
and implement
implement new
new forms
forms of
of humancomputer
humancomputer interactions
as part
part of
of is
is interventions
interventions is
is a
a powerful
powerful enhancement
constituencies like
like sts
sts that
that have
have traditionally
traditionally played
played even
even more
peripheral roles
roles with
with respect
respect to
to technology
technology e
focusing on
on impacts
or critically
critically deconstructing
deconstructing meanings
meanings can
can participate
participate in
in a
a more
directive fashion
fashion when
when supported
supported by
by colleagues
colleagues who
who do
do this
this as
as a
a central
element of
of their
their technical
technical work
our construal
construal of
of the
the role
role of
of hci
hci in
in ischools
ischools as
as an
an anchor
anchor for
design research
research has
has more
more general
general implications
implications for
for how
how we
we think
think of
ischool faculty
faculty groups
for example
example at
at penn
penn state
state we
we have
have often
identified faculty
faculty groupings
groupings concerned
concerned with
with people
people and
and technology
people and
and information
information or
or information
information and
and technology
surprisingly such
such distinctions
distinctions do
do little
little to
to energize
energize engagement
engagement across
perhaps differentiating
differentiating faculty
faculty groups
groups based
based on
on how
how they
pursue research
research questions
questions in
in the
the ispace
ispace which
which is
is a
a nexus
nexus of
information technology
technology and
and people
people and
and equally
equally important
important how
how their
methods and
and approaches
approaches can
can complement
complement others
others would
would be
be more
more productive
carroll j
dourish p
friedman b
kurosu m
olson g
sutcliffe a
institutionalizing hci
hci what
what do
do ischools
ischools offer
extended abstracts
abstracts of
of acm
acm chi
chi conference
conference on
on human
human factors
factors of
computing systems
systems april
april montreal
new york
york acm
acm press
press pgs
