the social
social tagging
tagging act
act of
of reading
cheryl knott
knott malone
ua sirls
east first
first street
tucson az
on flickr
flickr a
a webbased
webbased service
service for
for managing
managing and
and sharing
sharing digital
digital images
reading and
and tagging
tagging come
come together
together in
in ways
ways that
that reveal
reveal how
how people
people as
individuals organizing
organizing their
their own
own photographs
photographs as
as well
well as
as making
making them
available for
for discovery
discovery by
by others
others think
think about
about reading
reading when
when they
attempt to
to depict
depict it
it in
in images
images and
and in
in words
in this
this pilot
pilot study
study of
of the
tags assigned
assigned to
to a
a sample
sample of
of photographs
photographs tagged
tagged with
with the
the terms
terms book
and reading
reading only
only of
of the
the total
total tags
tags were
were used
used more
more than
than once
broad range
range of
of unique
unique tags
tags suggests
suggests an
an idiosyncratic
idiosyncratic approach
approach to
labeling that
that makes
makes it
it difficult
difficult to
to draw
draw conclusions
conclusions about
about images
images of
consequently additional
additional searches
searches were
were conducted
conducted on
on flickr
flickr and
the results
results are
are reported
reported and
and interpreted
the paper
paper concludes
concludes with
with a
discussion of
of proposed
proposed followup
followup research
cultural information
information systems
information organization
reading books
books social
social tagging
tagging flickr
flickr photographs
mitchell stephens
stephens in
in the
the rise
rise of
of the
the image
image the
the fall
fall of
of the
the word
describes three
three places
places a
a physicians
physicians waiting
waiting room
room a
a childs
childs bedroom
and a
a passenger
passenger jet
jet and
and asks
asks whats
whats missing
missing from
from these
these pictures
his answer
answer reading
reading is
is now
now missing
missing from
from countless
countless scenes
scenes it
it once
dominated at
at kitchen
kitchen tables
tables on
on buses
buses and
and trains
trains in
in beds
beds at
at night
night on
couches even
even in
in some
some classrooms
reading of
of literature
literature in
in particular
particular is
is less
less present
present in
in american
lives according
according to
to a
a national
national endowment
endowment for
for the
the arts
arts survey
survey which
which in
identified an
an overall
overall decline
decline of
of percentage
percentage points
points in
in literary
readers from
from to
to representing
representing a
a loss
loss of
of million
million potential
at the
the same
same time
time scholars
scholars of
of print
print culture
culture have
have produced
quantities of
of studies
of reading
reading both
both current
current and
and historical
the work
work on
on current
current reading
practices often
often uses
uses ethnographic
ethnographic methods
methods to
to observe
observe and
and interview
readers while
while the
the historical
historical studies
studies draw
draw on
on the
the customary
customary sources
sources of
historians archival
archival and
and published
published texts
texts to
to reconstruct
reconstruct readers
readers and
their experiences
their work
work documents
documents the
the political
political social
individual and
and cultural
cultural functions
functions uses
uses and
and meanings
meanings of
of reading
reading in
diverse circumstances
circumstances and
and locales
reading would
would at
at first
first glance
glance seem
seem to
to have
have nothing
nothing to
to do
do with
collaborative or
or distributed
distributed tagging
tagging of
of information
information resources
especially images
both are
are of
of interest
interest to
to researchers
researchers and
and teachers
teachers of
library and
and information
information science
science lis
lis albeit
albeit to
to different
different and
and probably
not overlapping
overlapping communities
communities of
of interest
interest despite
despite the
the fact
fact that
that neither
reading nor
nor tagging
tagging is
is considered
considered core
core to
to lis
lis paradigms
paradigms or
or to
to the
the lis
print culture
culture theorists
theorists understand
understand reading
reading as
as both
a solitary
solitary and
and a
a social
social act
similarly social
social tagging
tagging of
of information
resources has
has both
both individual
individual and
and social
social aspects
one place
place where
reading and
and tagging
tagging come
come together
together is
is flickr
flickr a
a webbased
webbased service
service for
managing and
and sharing
sharing digital
digital images
images tagged
tagged reading
reading constitute
a new
new body
body of
of documentation
documentation for
for print
print culture
culture scholars
scholars who
who typically
have relied
relied on
on the
the word
word to
to study
study the
the word
word but
but they
they also
also offer
offer a
a body
body of
data for
for lis
lis researchers
researchers interested
interested in
in understanding
understanding the
the phenomenon
phenomenon of
collaborative indexing
indexing and
and what
what it
it can
can tell
tell us
us about
about amateur
amateur or
or what
beghtol has
has called
called nave
nave information
information resource
resource description
description and
corinne jorgensen
jorgensen has
has pointed
pointed out
out that
that there
there are
are now
three ways
ways to
to provide
provide intellectual
intellectual access
access to
to images
images humanassigned
controlled vocabulary
vocabulary terms
terms computergenerated
computergenerated indexing
indexing and
and social
social or
distributed or
or collaborative
collaborative tagging
she suggests
suggests that
that social
social tagging
may help
help reduce
reduce the
the semantic
semantic gap
gap between
between human
human indexing
indexing with
with its
interest in
in contextual
contextual meaning
meaning and
and automated
automated indexing
indexing with
with its
its focus
focus on
describing the
the content
content and
and characteristics
characteristics of
of the
the object
object represented
represented in
an image
on flickr
flickr reading
reading and
and tagging
tagging come
come together
together in
in ways
ways that
that reveal
reveal how
people as
as individuals
individuals organizing
organizing their
their own
own photographs
photographs as
as well
well as
making them
them available
available for
for discovery
discovery by
by others
others think
think about
about reading
when they
they attempt
attempt to
to depict
depict it
it in
in images
images and
and in
in words
how people
conceptualize and
and represent
represent reading
reading in
in the
the early
early st
st century
century matters
matters to
students of
of print
print culture
culture interested
interested in
in the
the continuing
continuing and
and changing
activities and
and behaviors
behaviors associated
associated with
with literacy
literacy and
and to
to students
students of
information interested
interested in
in the
the continuing
continuing and
and changing
changing activities
activities and
behaviors associated
associated with
with resource
resource description
description for
for organization
organization and
consequently this
this paper
paper marks
marks the
the beginning
beginning of
of a
a research
project designed
designed to
to uncover
uncover and
and analyze
analyze modernday
modernday graphic
graphic and
and textual
representations of
of reading
reading in
in everyday
everyday life
the preliminary
preliminary work
reported here
here focuses
focuses on
on identifying
identifying what
what is
is depicted
depicted images
images labeled
with the
the tags
tags books
books and
and reading
this work
work will
will serve
serve as
as a
a foundation
for further
further research
research into
into the
the relationship
relationship between
between reading
reading and
and tagging
as social
social acts
acts but
but also
also as
as an
an intellectual
intellectual interaction
interaction characteristic
characteristic of
life in
in the
the information
information age
approximately million
million photographs
photographs are
are on
on flickr
the number
fluctuates as
as new
new photos
photos are
are uploaded
uploaded and
and as
as existing
existing ones
ones are
are removed
a simple
simple keyword
keyword search
search of
of the
the full
full text
text of
of flickr
flickr for
for reading
reading yields
more than
than results
results after
after deleting
deleting those
those where
where the
the keywords
pennsylvania penn
penn and
and pa
pa also
also occur
occur in
in an
an attempt
attempt to
to eliminate
photographs of
of the
the city
city of
of reading
when the
the search
search is
is limited
limited to
to tags
only the
the result
result is
is almost
this pilot
pilot study
study used
used two
two methods
methods to
reduce the
the number
number of
of results
results for
for the
the purposes
purposes of
of this
this report
the search
query included
included the
the words
words reading
reading and
and book
book limited
limited to
to tags
tags only
only bringing
the total
total results
results to
a random
random sample
sample of
of of
of these
these results
results was
selected for
for the
the study
the photographs
photographs depicted
depicted a
a range
range of
compositions including
including individuals
individuals and
and groups
groups handling
handling books
books stilllife
compositions involving
involving books
books with
with other
other objects
objects such
such as
as coffee
coffee mugs
mugs and
eyeglasses shots
shots of
of individual
individual books
books both
both open
open and
and closed
closed and
and stacks
or piles
piles or
or shelves
shelves of
of books
the researcher
researcher viewed
viewed each
each of
of the
images and
and their
their tags
tags and
and recorded
recorded and
and tabulated
tabulated the
the tags
to address
address mitchell
mitchell stephenss
stephenss assertion
assertion about
about where
where reading
reading occurs
additional searches
searches were
were conducted
conducted using
using keywords
keywords such
such as
as train
train bus
and airplane
airplane combined
combined with
with book
book and
and limited
limited to
to tags
tags only
the point
point is
not to
to prove
prove that
that books
books still
still have
have a
a place
place in
in the
the information
information age
age as
evidenced by
by their
their robust
robust representation
representation on
on a
a photosharing
photosharing site
site but
but to
explore what
what constitutes
constitutes reading
reading to
to the
the collective
collective mind
mind of
of flickr
image taggers
taggers and
and to
to elicit
elicit questions
questions for
for further
further investigation
findings and
and analysis
although this
this study
study is
is limited
limited to
to images
images tagged
tagged with
with both
both reading
reading and
book many
many other
other keywords
keywords related
related to
to the
the topic
topic are
are assigned
assigned as
as tags
tags on
table lists
lists some
some of
of them
them and
and the
the number
number of
of records
records with
with those
tags as
as of
of ranked
ranked by
by most
most to
to least
least common
the singular
singular form
book is
is the
the most
most commonly
commonly used
used tag
tag but
but it
it is
is not
not clear
clear that
that every
every image
tagged with
with the
the term
term is
is using
using that
that keyword
keyword to
to mean
mean the
the printed
printed codex
what is
is clear
clear is
is that
that some
some photographs
photographs tagged
tagged with
with the
the term
term book
book do
do not
depict a
a book
book at
at all
all but
but merely
merely evoke
evoke the
the idea
idea of
of a
a book
book such
such as
as the
image of
of a
a young
young man
man looking
looking down
down or
or of
of a
a solitary
solitary bookmark
not surprisingly
surprisingly more
more specific
specific tags
tags such
such as
as novel
novel and
and hardcover
hardcover are
used less
less frequently
frequently than
than broader
broader tags
table seq
seq table
table arabic
readingrelated keywords
keywords as
as flickr
flickr tags
although the
the photos
photos included
included in
in this
this study
study are
are not
not necessarily
tagged with
with the
the keywords
keywords shown
shown in
in table
table they
they nevertheless
nevertheless are
are useful
because they
they were
were tagged
tagged with
with two
two of
of the
the most
most popular
popular ones
ones book
book and
the number
number of
of unique
unique tags
tags beyond
beyond book
book and
and reading
reading assigned
assigned to
these photographs
photographs totaled
of the
the total
total tags
tags assigned
assigned to
to the
photographs only
only were
were used
used more
more than
than once
once as
as shown
shown in
in table
the terms
terms have
have not
not been
been grouped
grouped into
into categories
categories but
but some
some ways
ways to
to do
that are
are obvious
for example
example it
it would
would make
make sense
sense to
to combine
combine the
the terms
me self
self and
and selfportrait
selfportrait which
which is
is a
a already
already a
a combination
combination of
selfportrait and
and selfportrait
selfportrait into
into a
a single
single group
additional tags
tags for
for photos
photos tagged
tagged book
book and
and reading
american tour
crime writer
michael jecks
san francisco
totaling occurrences
occurrences in
in the
the tags
tags used
used in
in the
the photos
but the
tag me
me tied
tied for
for second
second place
place with
with occurrences
occurrences is
is interesting
interesting in
in and
of itself
its commonplace
commonplace for
for library
library and
and information
information science
science lis
practitioners and
and researchers
researchers to
to assert
assert that
that tags
tags are
are akin
akin to
to subject
headings and
and indexing
indexing terms
terms but
but the
the tag
tag me
me arose
arose out
out of
of social
social tagging
and not
not out
out of
of formal
formal expert
expert controlledvocabulary
controlledvocabulary construction
those of
of us
us with
with an
an lis
lis background
background the
the tag
tag me
me seems
seems superfluous
superfluous at
at best
and downright
downright nonsensical
nonsensical given
given its
its ambiguity
ambiguity and
and its
its seeming
seeming lack
lack of
utility for
for information
information retrieval
and yet
yet it
it has
has its
its uses
uses however
one flickr
flickr user
user has
has written
written the
the me
me tag
tag is
is easily
my favourite
favourite tag
tag on
on flickr
flickr it
it shows
shows the
the wide
wide variety
variety of
of different
different folks
who post
post to
to flickr
flickr a
a wide
wide variety
variety of
of ages
ages and
and genders
genders appearances
appearances and
tagging a
a photo
photo me
me may
may serve
serve as
as the
the photographers
way to
to take
take credit
credit for
for their
their work
work without
without having
having to
to reveal
reveal their
their real
name or
or other
other personal
personal information
table does
does not
not indicate
indicate whats
whats most
most striking
striking about
about the
the ways
ways in
in which
images related
related to
to reading
reading are
are tagged
tagged because
because it
it does
does not
not list
list the
tags assigned
assigned to
to only
only one
one of
of the
the photos
photos in
in the
the sample
sample set
unique tags
tags range
range alphabetically
alphabetically from
from a
a train
train to
to zig
many of
of them
them are
the first
first names
names of
of the
the individuals
individuals captured
captured in
in the
the photographs
are the
the titles
titles and
and authors
authors of
of the
the books
books depicted
as with
with the
the tags
tags in
table such
such as
as library
library and
and studying
studying some
some of
of these
these singleuse
singleuse terms
seem highly
highly correlated
correlated to
to the
the reading
reading of
of books
for example
example the
the terms
include literary
literary festival
festival and
and author
author event
other terms
terms such
such as
as the
active sailing
sailing and
and the
the passive
passive sleeping
sleeping seem
seem incompatible
incompatible with
with the
the act
of reading
the tags
tags for
for the
the sample
sample of
of images
images do
do not
not quite
quite address
address mitchell
stephenss assertion
assertion that
that it
it is
is rare
rare to
to find
find people
people reading
reading in
in public
or private
private spaces
the sample
sample set
set is
is small
small relative
relative to
to the
the total
total number
of images
images on
on flickr
and people
people do
do not
not tag
tag in
in a
a systematic
systematic manner
requiring them
them to
to make
make sure
sure every
every object
object shown
shown in
in a
a photograph
photograph has
has a
corresponding tag
but a
a search
search in
in all
all of
of flickr
flickr combining
combining the
the tag
tag book
with other
other tags
tags representing
representing a
a variety
variety of
of settings
settings did
did turn
turn up
up some
results worth
worth considering
considering as
as seen
seen in
in table
beach emerged
emerged as
as the
the most
most frequent
frequent setting
setting of
of the
the settingrelated
settingrelated tags
it may
may be
be that
that people
people take
take books
books to
to the
the beach
beach in
in greater
numbers than
than to
to starbucks
perhaps they
they take
take newspapers
newspapers to
to starbucks
it could
could also
also be
be that
that people
people take
take books
books and
and digital
digital cameras
cameras on
the relatively
relatively rare
rare and
and relaxed
relaxed days
days when
when they
they visit
visit the
the beach
beach more
often than
than they
they take
take both
both to
to starbucks
starbucks when
when they
they stop
stop in
in on
on their
their way
way to
in other
other words
words each
each row
row in
in the
the table
table can
can only
only suggest
suggest some
some of
of the
contexts in
in which
which books
books can
can be
be found
the table
table as
as a
a whole
whole however
provides us
us with
with a
a sense
sense that
that some
some books
books coincide
coincide with
with some
some peoples
eating drinking
drinking loafing
loafing and
and traveling
and with
with their
their shooting
shooting and
and sharing
sharing of
of photographs
photos with
with book
book tag
tag and
and a
a contextual
contextual tag
further research
this preliminary
preliminary study
study cannot
cannot offer
offer definitive
definitive conclusions
conclusions but
but it
it can
serve as
as the
the foundation
foundation for
for further
further research
research especially
especially because
because it
it can
suggest additional
additional questions
questions to
to ask
ask and
and methods
methods to
to use
here are
are some
some research
research questions
questions that
that have
have occurred
occurred to
to me
me and
and that
that i
plan to
to pursue
pursue as
as a
a result
result of
of this
this early
early work
what demographics
demographics are
are represented
represented in
in photos
photos depicting
depicting people
people and
and books
what proportion
proportion show
show different
different age
age groups
groups genders
genders ethnicities
ethnicities and
nationalities what
what are
are the
the methodological
methodological issues
issues involved
involved in
in trying
trying to
interpret demographics
demographics from
from images
images when
when the
the accompanying
accompanying tags
tags do
do not
provide any
any demographic
demographic indications
which books
books are
are shown
shown in
in photographs
photographs tagged
tagged with
with terms
terms related
related to
to books
and reading
reading which
which authors
authors are
are represented
represented which
which specific
specific book
book titles
and which
which categories
categories of
of books
books are
are shown
shown and
and in
in what
what proportion
proportion what
impact does
does a
a media
media event
event such
such as
as the
the release
release of
of a
a harry
harry potter
potter book
have on
on the
the number
number and
and type
type of
of photos
photos published
how do
do the
the titles
titles and
and captions
captions and
and comments
comments supplement
supplement or
or subvert
subvert the
tags assigned
assigned to
to photos
photos how
how does
does the
the photostream
photostream andor
andor themed
themed set
set in
which the
the photo
photo appears
appears alter
alter the
the viewers
viewers understanding
understanding of
of the
the photo
to what
what extent
extent are
are photos
photos of
of reading
reading staged
staged versus
versus candid
candid to
to what
extent is
is the
the book
book a
a prop
prop what
what is
is the
the function
function of
of the
the book
book as
propfor creating
creating a
a particular
particular selfimage
selfimage or
or for
for product
product or
or author
author or
bookstore or
or library
library promotion
promotion or
or to
to evoke
evoke the
the centuriesold
centuriesold symbol
symbol of
literacy or
or revolution
revolution or
or erudition
the last
last set
set of
of questions
questions will
will require
require surveying
surveying andor
andor interviewing
the remaining
remaining questions
questions can
can be
be answered
answered largely
largely through
the use
use of
of good
good data
data gathering
gathering and
and analytic
analytic methods
flickr is
is a
a popular
popular and
and successful
successful social
social networking
networking site
site and
and its
features serve
serve its
its users
users well
but the
the researcher
researcher needs
needs different
different kinds
of features
features and
and functions
the large
large number
number of
of unique
unique tags
tags assigned
assigned to
photos the
the lack
lack of
of a
a highly
highly developed
developed search
search engine
engine with
with full
full boolean
operations and
and truncation
truncation devices
devices and
and the
the absence
absence of
of a
a controlled
vocabulary of
of indexing
indexing terms
terms hamper
hamper the
the researchers
researchers ability
ability to
retrieve a
a reliable
reliable and
and accurate
accurate set
set of
of results
results depicting
depicting reading
consequently the
the datagathering
datagathering and
and analysis
analysis methods
methods used
used in
in subsequent
work on
on this
this topic
topic should
should include
include researchergenerated
researchergenerated indexing
indexing terms
for each
each image
image being
being studied
this approach
approach would
would introduce
introduce muchneeded
consistency for
for example
example a
a photo
photo of
of someone
someone reading
reading in
in the
the aisles
aisles at
borders and
and another
another of
of a
a reader
reader sitting
sitting in
in a
a chair
chair at
at barnes
barnes noble
would both
both be
be assigned
assigned a
a controlledvocabulary
controlledvocabulary term
term such
such as
this approach
approach would
would also
also allow
allow not
not only
only for
for greater
consistency but
but also
also for
for comprehensiveness
comprehensiveness at
at least
least for
for the
researchers interests
for instance
instance a
a photo
photo of
of a
a person
person sitting
sitting on
the grass
grass in
in a
a city
city park
park would
would probably
probably never
never be
be tagged
tagged public
public but
the researcher
researcher interested
interested in
in making
making a
a distinction
distinction between
between reading
reading in
public and
and reading
reading in
in private
private would
would find
find such
such a
a tag
tag useful
finally the
the researchers
researchers work
work should
should be
be grounded
grounded not
not only
only in
in the
literature of
of social
social tagging
tagging but
but in
in the
the theory
theory of
of the
the social
social uses
uses of
photography and
and in
in work
work on
on the
the intersection
intersection of
of print
print and
and digital
the practices
practices of
of sharing
sharing digital
digital images
images and
and providing
providing collaborative
tagging to
to describe
describe images
images have
have created
created an
an intriguing
intriguing body
body of
of work
work that
can be
be mined
mined for
for information
information related
related to
to many
many topics
topics not
not least
least of
of which
is the
the topic
topic of
of books
books and
and reading
reading in
in the
the era
era of
of digital
digital information
neither images
images nor
nor their
their labels
labels offer
offer unambiguous
unambiguous evidence
evidence for
for the
persistence of
of the
the printed
printed codex
codex its
its relative
relative presence
presence in
in peoples
lives or
or the
the uses
uses to
to which
which it
it is
is put
a preliminary
preliminary look
look at
at a
a selection
of digital
digital photos
photos tagged
tagged book
book and
and reading
reading suggests
suggests that
that with
with carefully
crafted research
research methods
methods both
both image
image and
and word
word can
can be
be studied
studied together
together to
help us
us understand
understand individual
individual and
and social
social uses
uses of
of reading
reading or
or perhaps
more accurately
accurately individual
individual and
and social
social uses
uses of
of representations
representations of
beghtol c
classification for
for information
information retrieval
retrieval and
classification for
for knowledge
knowledge discovery
discovery relationships
relationships between
professional and
and nave
nave classifications
creative commons
jrgensen c
image access
access the
the semantic
semantic gap
gap and
and social
social tagging
as a
a paradigm
paradigm shift
in lussky
lussky joan
joan ed
proceedings th
th workshop
workshop of
the american
american society
society for
for information
information science
science and
and technology
technology special
interest group
group in
in classification
classification research
research milwaukee
milwaukee wi
cobalt cranberry
cranberry baking
baking bookmark
national endowment
endowment for
for the
the arts
literary reading
reading in
dramatic decline
decline according
according to
to national
national endowment
endowment for
for the
the arts
arts survey
stephens m
the rise
rise of
of the
the image
image the
the fall
fall of
of the
the word
university press
tagography case
case studies
wiegand w
out of
of sight
sight out
out of
of mind
mind why
why dont
dont we
we have
have any
schools of
of library
library and
and reading
reading studies
studies j
