understanding information
information ethics
ethics and
and policy
integrating ethical
ethical reflection
and critical
critical thinking
thinking into
into policy
policy development
toni carbo
professor school
school of
of information
sciences and
graduate school
school of
of public
public and
international affairs
university of
of pittsburgh
pittsburgh is
is building
sis n
pittsburgh pa
pa usa
by toni
toni carbo
university of
of pittsburgh
then building
building on
on policy
frameworks and
and several
several models
models for
for ethical
ethical reflection
and critical
critical thinking
thinking the
the paper
paper will
will describe
describe briefly
briefly a
casebased learning
learning approach
approach with
with a
a model
model for
for critical
thinking for
for a
a proposed
proposed undergraduate
undergraduate course
course on
information ethics
ethics and
and policy
general terms
abstract the
the development
development and
and implementation
implementation of
information policies
policies must
must begin
begin with
with an
an understanding
of underlying
underlying values
values such
such from
from different
different cultural
perspectives and
and points
points of
of view
as capurro
capurro reminds
us as
as a
a selfreferential
selfreferential process
process ethics
ethics is
is an
an unending
quest on
on explicit
explicit and
and implicit
implicit use
use of
of the
the moral
moral code
that is
is to
to say
say of
of respect
respect or
or disrespect
disrespect with
with regard
regard to
individual and
and social
social communication
there is
indeed no
no unbiased
unbiased ethical
ethical observer
capurro et
et al
in her
her work
work on
on ethical
ethical warrant
warrant berghtol
has noted
noted the
the importance
importance of
of understanding
understanding context
her concept
concept of
of cultural
cultural hospitality
provides a
a theoretical
theoretical framework
framework for
for the
the ethical
warrant of
of knowledge
knowledge representation
representation and
and organization
systems and
and it
it helps
helps in
in representing
representing new
new knowledge
and organizations
organizations systems
systems and
and for
for revising
revising existing
systems and
and the
the diverse
diverse cultures
cultures to
to which
which each
individual belongs
using these
these two
two foundations
foundations this
paper provides
provides an
an overview
overview of
of some
some of
of the
the critical
information ethics
ethics issues
issues challenging
challenging policy
policy makers
makers in
government and
and in
information ethics
information policy
background and
and context
ethics as
as reflection
reflection on
on morality
morality is
is widely
widely accepted
among philosopher
philosopher beginning
beginning with
with aristotle
aristotle the
founder of
of ethics
ethics as
as an
an academic
academic discipline
as rafael
capurro who
who heads
heads the
the international
international center
center for
information ethics
ethics icie
icie reminds
reminds us
as a
a selfreferential
selfreferential process
process ethics
is an
an unending
unending quest
quest on
on explicit
and implicit
implicit use
use of
of the
moral code
code that
that is
is to
to say
say of
respect or
or disrespect
disrespect with
regard to
to individual
individual and
social communication
other words
words ethics
ethics observes
the ways
ways we
we communicate
communicate with
each other
other as
as moral
moral persons
and the
the ways
ways this
this moral
identify is
is understood
there is
is indeed
indeed no
no unbiased
ethical observer
in the
the rapidly
rapidly changing
changing environments
environments in
in which
information professionals
professionals work
work and
and in
in which
which ischool
educators teach
teach ethical
ethical issues
issues are
are increasingly
increasingly being
raised demanding
demanding attention
attention and
and efforts
efforts toward
of particular
particular interest
interest for
for ischools
ischools and
and the
information field
field are
are those
those related
related to
to information
throughout its
its lifecycle
originally called
called the
the ethics
ethics of
information in
in society
society this
this topic
topic has
has more
more commonly
been referred
referred to
to as
as information
information ethics
ethics ie
beginning in
in conferences
conferences on
on the
the ethics
ethics of
electronic information
information in
in the
the st
st century
century were
were held
held at
the university
university memphis
the subject
subject of
of ie
ie has
has also
gained international
international interest
interest as
as demonstrated
demonstrated by
by recent
activities starting
starting with
with the
the first
first unesco
unesco conference
of infoethics
infoethics in
in an
an invitational
conference was
was held
held in
in karlsruhe
karlsruhe germany
germany under
under the
leadership of
of the
the icie
icie with
with support
support from
from the
volkswagenstiftung in
the world
world summit
on the
the information
information society
society wsis
wsis developed
the declaration
declaration of
of principles
principles building
building the
information society
society a
a global
global challenge
challenge in
in the
the new
millennium and
and in
in february
february the
the first
african conference
conference on
on information
information ethics
ethics was
was held
held in
south africa
africa first
first african
african conference
conference on
on information
building on
on the
the conference
conference in
august a
a unesco
unesco and
and the
the south
south african
government sponsored
sponsored training
training workshop
workshop on
on ie
ie and
and egovernment
egovernment in
in subsaharan
subsaharan africa
africa twill
twill be
be held
held in
south africa
of course
course many
many professional
professional associations
associations in
in the
information field
field have
have had
had codes
codes of
of ethics
ethics for
for years
and the
the association
association for
for library
library and
and information
science education
education alise
alise recently
recently established
established a
taskforce to
to develop
develop a
a code
code of
of ethics
ethics for
for alise
alise with
a report
report due
due at
at its
its annual
annual conference
conference in
in january
the topic
topic of
of information
information ethics
ethics has
has been
been addressed
addressed in
the literature
literature with
with an
an annual
annual review
review of
of the
the literature
on the
the topic
topic first
first appearing
appearing in
in the
the annual
annual review
review of
information science
science and
and technology
technology in
the past
past nearly
nearly years
years several
several ischools
ischools have
incorporated information
information ethics
ethics into
into their
their curricula
both as
as standalone
standalone courses
courses and
and as
as part
part of
of other
courses many
many of
of which
which are
are required
required core
core courses
ie education
education at
at pitts
in the
the school
school introduced
introduced a
a lecture
lecture series
series on
on the
ethics of
of information
information in
in society
society to
to help
help in
in shaping
the information
information ethics
ethics course
course that
that was
was introduced
introduced the
following year
the course
course seeks
seeks to
to provide
provide a
a background
background to
to applied
ethics as
as a
a prelude
prelude to
to learning
learning the
the skills
skills of
of ethical
decisionmaking and
and then
then to
to applying
applying those
those skills
skills to
the real
real and
and current
current challenges
challenges of
of the
the information
the scope
scope of
of the
the coursework
coursework and
discussions includes
includes decisionmaking
decisionmaking and
and challenges
related to
to information
information sources
sources and
and services
services in
in all
formats and
and media
media to
to the
the internet
internet and
and other
other digital
sources cyber
cyber ethics
ethics and
and to
to informationrelated
topics in
in management
the objectives
objectives of
of the
the course
described as
as what
what students
students will
will be
be expected
expected to
to have
have at
the completion
completion of
of the
the course
course are
developed a
a better
better understanding
of themselves
themselves in
in the
the ongoing
endeavor to
to know
know thyself
learned how
how to
to identify
identify an
an issue
reflect on
on it
it which
which is
is ethics
ethics and
make a
a decision
decision that
that is
is moral
engaged in
in reflective
reflective thinking
thinking and
careful choice
choice of
of words
words which
result in
in civil
civil discourse
developed an
an understanding
understanding of
of the
art and
and science
science of
of applied
applied ethics
ethics as
related to
to the
the main
main challenges
currently confronting
confronting the
information profession
the course
course is
is not
not a
a philosophy
philosophy or
or religion
religion course
course but
instead concentrates
concentrates on
on the
the application
application of
of ethical
reasoning to
to the
the information
information profession
profession with
with its
many diverse
diverse specializations
it is
is divided
divided into
into three
main sections
sections an
an introduction
introduction to
to applied
applied ethics
ethics the
necessary steps
steps for
for facing
facing up
up to
to and
and resolving
resolving a
a moral
dilemma and
and making
making a
a decision
decision and
and ethical
ethical issues
issues in
our field
the approach
approach combines
combines knowing
knowing how
with knowing
knowing why
why and
and concentrates
concentrates on
on the
the many
questions to
to be
be asked
asked in
in resolving
resolving complex
complex issues
beginning with
with the
the individual
it is
is about
about each
each of
of us
us as
an individual
individual even
even though
though it
it is
is often
often easier
easier to
to think
think of
someone elses
elses ethics
ethics and
and also
also relates
relates to
to interactions
with other
other components
components of
of life
life e
the environment
animals etc
the importance
importance of
of the
the relationship
between one
one individual
individual and
and another
another and
and the
the need
need to
learn to
to understand
understand that
that each
each of
of us
us is
is a
a human
human worthy
of respect
respect that
that we
we are
are fundamentally
fundamentally the
the same
same is
the initial
initial assignment
assignment is
is for
for students
students to
to read
and reflect
reflect on
on the
the u
universal declaration
declaration of
human rights
rights and
and martin
martin luther
luther kings
kings i
i have
have a
dream speech
speech and
and to
to write
write a
a short
short paper
paper on
on the
fundamental moral
moral experience
they then
then identify
identify a
personal problem
problem or
or issue
issue whether
whether related
related to
to personal
or professional
professional life
life and
and work
work throughout
throughout the
the course
towards solution
solution of
of the
the problem
for the
the course
course the
the definition
definition of
of ethics
ethics used
used is
ethics is
is the
the art
art and
and science
that seeks
seeks to
to bring
bring sensitivity
and method
method to
to the
the discernment
discernment of
moral values
stephen almagno
and toni
toni carbo
students read
read a
a series
series of
of books
books and
and articles
articles which
change over
over time
time and
and are
are drawn
drawn from
from a
a number
number of
disciplines including
including philosophy
philosophy library
library and
information science
science business
business and
and many
many others
readings usually
usually include
include at
at least
least two
two books
books such
such as
stephen carters
carters integrity
integrity and
and the
the dalai
dalai lamas
lamas ethics
for the
the new
new millennium
millennium as
as well
well as
as articles
articles from
from the
journal of
of information
information ethics
ethics the
the harvard
harvard business
review and
and numerous
numerous other
other journals
journals in
in the
the library
library and
information field
field and
and from
from other
other disciplines
models for
for ethical
several readings
readings and
and references
references to
to websites
websites including
icies website
website have
have been
been included
included throughout
throughout the
course to
to provide
provide the
the context
context for
for ethical
ethical reflection
reflection and
decisionmaking in
in particular
particular to
to emphasize
emphasize the
importance of
of different
different perspectives
perspectives from
from cultural
social and
and individual
individual viewpoints
this broader
understanding is
is essential
essential to
to any
any course
course especially
this course
the course
course is
is taught
taught in
in english
english to
englishspeaking students
students and
and is
is thus
thus limited
limited in
in the
readings that
that are
are used
used although
although students
students are
encouraged to
to bring
bring in
in examples
examples from
from their
their own
readings in
in different
different languages
languages and
and from
from experience
experience in
their own
own countries
countries and
and cultures
i have
have consistently
emphasized my
my own
own limitations
limitations and
and encouraged
encouraged others
to broaden
broaden the
the views
views of
of everyone
everyone in
in the
the course
one very
very helpful
helpful if
if complex
complex source
source for
understanding context
context is
is clare
clare beghtols
beghtols work
work on
ethical warrant
beghtol who
who is
is on
on the
the faculty
of the
the university
university of
of toronto
toronto faculty
faculty of
of information
studies draws
draws upon
upon her
her extensive
extensive research
research to
to address
problems of
of creating
creating ethically
ethically based
based globally
accessible and
and culturally
culturally acceptable
acceptable knowledge
representation and
and organization
organization systems
systems and
foundation principles
principles for
for the
the ethical
ethical treatment
treatment of
different cultures
basing her
her work
work on
on the
the u
universal declaration
declaration of
of human
human rights
rights she
she presents
the concept
concept of
of cultural
cultural hospitality
hospitality to
to act
act as
as a
theoretical framework
framework for
for the
the ethical
ethical warrant
warrant of
knowledge representation
representation and
and organization
organization systems
she concludes
concludes that
that the
the concept
concept of
of cultural
cultural hospitality
is promising
promising for
for assessing
assessing the
the ethical
ethical foundations
foundations of
systems for
for representing
representing new
new knowledge
knowledge and
organizations systems
systems and
and for
for revising
revising existing
reminding us
us that
that each
each individual
individual belongs
to a
a number
number of
of different
different cultures
cultures at
at different
different levels
living in
in one
one country
country speaking
speaking different
languages adhering
adhering to
to policies
policies and
and practices
practices of
different religions
religions andor
andor political
political parties
parties belonging
belonging to
different social
social organizations
organizations etc
she notes
notes that
individuals may
may and
and do
do legitimately
legitimately disagree
also argues
argues that
that the
the boundaries
boundaries among
among cultures
cultures can
themselves be
be fuzzy
fuzzy and
and create
create tensions
tensions within
within an
in her
her discussions
discussions of
of the
the relationships
relationships of
any particular
particular culture
culture to
to its
its information
information needs
needs and
systems and
and noting
noting differences
differences among
among oral
oral and
and written
cultures she
she raises
raises questions
questions concerning
concerning what
what kinds
kinds of
information people
people need
need what
what they
they do
do with
with it
it the
extent to
to which
which they
they value
value it
it and
and whether
whether they
they choose
to perpetuate
perpetuate the
the information
her thoughtful
thoughtful if
somewhat densely
densely packed
packed paper
paper raises
raises several
questions such
such as
as whether
whether principles
principles of
of cultural
hospitality can
can be
be used
used to
to develop
develop cultureneutral
systems and
and theories
theories which
which deserve
deserve much
much more
her paper
paper continues
continues to
to stimulate
stimulate thinking
and discussion
discussion by
by students
models and
and frameworks
the wheel
over the
the fifteen
fifteen years
years of
of teaching
teaching the
the course
course we
we have
used a
a series
series of
of models
models to
to assist
assist students
students with
with ethical
reflection and
and decisionmaking
initially prof
almagno used
used the
the model
model of
of a
a wheel
wheel with
with four
four groups
of questions
questions in
in the
the center
center hub
how who
who when
when where
where foreseeable
foreseeable effects
viable alternatives
the spokes
spokes of
of the
the wheel
are creativeimagination
creativeimagination reasonanalysis
reasonanalysis principles
affectivity individual
individual experience
experience group
group experience
authority comedy
comedy and
and tragedy
the questions
questions in
in the
hub provided
provided questions
questions for
for gathering
gathering information
information and
to help
help in
in revealing
revealing other
other questions
questions to
to be
be asked
asked to
determine reality
they also
also provide
provide a
a reminder
reminder that
ethical thinking
thinking requires
requires dialogue
dialogue even
even if
if only
only with
ones self
the spokes
spokes serve
serve as
as evaluation
evaluation resources
through which
which moral
moral consciousness
consciousness and
and awareness
awareness can
unfold and
and they
they provide
provide a
a systematic
systematic process
process to
address the
the concerns
concerns about
about how
how to
to evaluate
evaluate each
each step
in making
making a
a decision
while some
some students
students found
found the
wheel helpful
helpful in
in assisting
assisting their
their decisionmaking
process many
many found
found the
the steps
steps suggested
suggested by
by the
the spokes
to be
be somewhat
somewhat confusing
confusing and
and to
to overlap
mason et
et al
one example
example used
used is
is that
that proposed
proposed by
by mason
mason et
et al
ethics of
of information
information management
they remind
the readers
readers that
that ethical
ethical dialogues
dialogues are
are dynamic
dynamic and
nonlinear and
and suggest
suggest a
a checklist
checklist of
of six
considerations to
to be
be taken
taken into
into account
account when
when resolving
an ethical
ethical issue
these steps
steps are
what are
are the
the facts
what ethical
ethical principles
standards or
or norms
norms should
should be
who should
should decide
who should
should benefit
benefit from
from the
how should
should the
the decision
decision be
what steps
steps should
should be
be taken
taken to
prevent this
this issue
issue from
occurring again
step one
one relates
relates to
to morally
morally relevant
relevant considerations
considerations and
requires both
both determining
determining pertinent
pertinent information
understanding the
the life
life cycles
cycles involved
involved and
identification of
of key
key decisionmaking
decisionmaking processes
processes and
identifying all
all the
the key
key stakeholders
stakeholders their
their values
motivation and
and physical
physical history
this step
establishes what
what is
the second
second step
step concentrates
concentrates on
what ought
ought to
to be
be and
and identifies
identifies ethical
considerations to
to be
be applied
the third
third step
step seeks
seeks to
identify who
who should
should take
take necessary
necessary actions
actions how
how to
ensure that
that all
all stakeholders
stakeholders are
are included
included and
legitimacy and
and right
right to
to make
make decisions
decisions as
as well
well as
as the
ability to
to affect
affect a
a resolution
step four
four addresses
addresses the
various benefits
benefits of
of all
all the
the stakeholders
stakeholders and
and how
how to
balance these
these including
including both
both shortterm
shortterm and
and longrun
step five
five addresses
addresses the
the method
method of
decisionmaking which
which must
must be
be and
and perceived
perceived to
to be
fair and
and ethical
the final
final step
step recognizes
recognizes that
that each
decision becomes
becomes a
a precedent
precedent and
and seeks
seeks to
to decide
what procedures
procedures should
should be
be used
used in
in the
the future
future and
and what
decision will
will be
be best
best for
for the
the future
of course
course this
process must
must be
be used
used within
within the
the specific
specific context
context of
of the
stakeholders making
making the
the decision
decision and
and within
within the
the wider
societal context
this framework
framework has
has been
been somewhat
somewhat useful
useful in
in the
course but
but many
many students
students have
have found
found that
that it
it does
does not
provide sufficient
sufficient guidance
guidance for
for them
a key
key problem
is that
that is
is starts
starts with
with gathering
gathering facts
facts before
before reflecting
on the
the questions
questions related
related to
to fully
fully understanding
understanding what
are the
the initial
initial questions
questions to
to be
be asked
asked to
to help
help identify
exactly what
what problems
problems and
and issues
issues need
need to
to be
also little
little guidance
guidance is
is provided
provided to
to address
other questions
questions especially
especially the
the second
second one
woodward framework
the late
late diana
diana woodward
woodward formerly
formerly on
on the
the faculty
faculty of
drexel university
university presents
presents a
a framework
framework for
for deciding
issues in
in ethics
she discusses
discusses advantages
advantages and
disadvantages of
of consequentiality
consequentiality and
and deontology
deontology as
bases for
for ethical
ethical reasoning
reasoning in
in general
general and
and intellectual
freedom in
in general
general concluding
concluding that
that a
a deontological
defense of
of intellectual
intellectual freedom
freedom is
is safer
safer than
than one
one on
consequential grounds
the article
article while
while helpful
helpful for
introducing some
some of
of the
the philosophical
philosophical foundations
foundations and
theoretical bases
bases for
for ethical
ethical reasoning
reasoning does
does not
provide a
a useful
useful framework
framework for
for addressing
addressing many
practical realworld
realworld issues
oboyle concentrates
concentrates on
on the
the use
use of
of the
the code
code of
ethics from
from the
the association
association for
for computing
computing machinery
acm described
described as
as deontological
deontological because
because of
of its
enumeration of
of rights
rights what
what is
is owed
owed by
by others
others and
duties what
what is
is owed
owed to
to others
others within
within a
a general
ethical decisionmaking
decisionmaking process
process to
to determine
determine an
providing a
a sound
sound discussion
discussion of
of earlier
writings on
on the
the acm
acm code
code he
he places
places the
the code
code within
a general
general ethical
ethical decisionmaking
decisionmaking process
process he
differentiates between
between to
to human
human faculties
faculties intellect
intellect and
oboyle builds
builds on
on work
work of
of rest
rest and
and kohlberg
and identifies
identifies a
a sixstage
sixstage process
process moral
moral perception
and personal
personal knowledge
knowledge of
of the
the moral
moral good
recognition that
that the
the problem
problem exists
exists moral
discernment and
and personal
personal ability
ability to
to think
think logically
stating the
the problem
problem clearly
clearly moral
moral resolution
resolution and
personal ability
ability to
to think
think analytically
analytically tackling
tackling the
complexities of
of the
the problem
problem to
to arrive
arrive at
at an
an individual
position moral
moral assessment
assessment and
and personal
personal ability
ability to
assess ones
ones freedom
freedom assessment
assessment including
including being
aware of
of the
the doubleedged
doubleedged sword
sword of
of new
technologies moral
moral decision
decision and
and personal
knowledge of
of ones
ones duties
duties decision
decision including
personal duty
duty and
and obligations
obligations and
and moral
moral action
and personal
personal willingness
willingness to
to follow
follow ones
ones intellect
intellect free
will used
used to
to take
take action
oboyle finds
finds that
that the
the acm
code is
is helpful
helpful with
with the
the first
first three
three stages
stages but
but not
not with
the other
other three
three and
and that
that training
training is
is needed
needed to
to apply
apply the
code effectively
he raises
raises two
two provocative
suggestions that
that implementing
implementing the
the code
code could
could be
advanced by
by making
making an
an individual
individual ethical
ethical audit
audit part
of an
an employees
employees performance
performance review
review and
and by
hiring people
people who
who have
have some
some understanding
understanding and
training in
in ethical
ethical behavior
the students
students have
have found
it helpful
helpful in
in applying
applying codes
codes of
of ethics
ethics to
to actual
situations and
and problems
problems and
and they
they find
find the
the questions
questions to
be provocative
because the
the article
article concentrates
specifically on
on the
the acm
acm code
code the
the sixstage
framework also
also has
has limitations
also it
it does
does not
include extensive
extensive discussion
discussion of
of the
the various
various needs
needs and
perspectives of
of the
the various
various stakeholders
stakeholders nor
nor does
does it
address many
many of
of the
the complex
complex cultural
cultural issues
one example
example from
from the
the corporate
corporate sector
sector was
was gerald
ottoson a
a retired
retired industry
industry executive
executive who
who is
is now
a consultant
ottoson has
has conducted
conducted numerous
numerous ethics
seminars over
over the
the years
years for
for workers
workers in
in corporations
his approach
approach is
is to
to spend
spend a
a small
small amount
amount of
of time
time on
fundamental ethical
ethical values
values e
honesty mercy
justice etc
and to
to concentrate
concentrate on
on models
models to
to examine
real cases
a suggested
suggested pattern
pattern of
of inquiry
inquiry is
presented as
as a
a checklist
checklist in
in reviewing
reviewing and
and evaluating
past actions
the model
model uses
uses a
a series
series of
of questions
who should
should make
make the
the decision
decision includes
includes where
where the
legitimate power
power to
to make
make the
the decision
decision lies
lies limits
limits on
authority obligationresponsibility
obligationresponsibility need
need for
knowledgethe essential
essential facts
facts and
neutralityobjectivity who
who are
are the
the stakeholders
principle of
of regard
regard for
for others
others what
what are
are the
alternatives including
including competing
competing claims
costsbenefits etc
and how
how should
should the
the decision
be reached
reached inclusion
inclusion in
in the
the process
process perception
perception of
involvement avoidance
avoidance of
of paternalism
he notes
notes that
decisionmaking is
is always
always a
a compromise
compromise there
there is
is no
perfect solution
solution and
and that
that there
there will
will always
always be
be some
regrettable aspects
aspects of
of the
the ultimate
ultimate decision
he also
realistically argues
argues that
that the
the final
final decisions
decisions often
often leave
the decision
decision maker
maker feeling
feeling a
a bit
bit uncomfortable
his framework
framework is
is incomplete
incomplete and
and open
open to
to many
different interpretations
interpretations the
the students
students find
find this
example used
used in
in conjunction
conjunction with
with others
others to
to be
be helpful
because of
of its
its emphasis
emphasis on
on the
the workplace
workplace and
and its
realistic questions
christine altenburger
altenburger a
a retired
retired faculty
faculty member
from the
the university
university of
of pittsburgh
pittsburgh graduate
graduate school
school of
public and
and international
international affairs
affairs taught
taught applied
applied ethics
for many
many years
in her
her teaching
teaching she
she developed
developed a
series of
of principles
principles and
and a
a framework
framework unpublished
which she
she has
has given
given permission
permission to
to use
use in
in our
our classes
the basic
basic principles
principles she
she identifies
identifies summarized
summarized from
those frequently
frequently found
found in
in the
the literature
literature are
are do
do no
do good
good if
if possible
observe the
the cannons
cannons of
be fair
respect the
the rights
rights dignity
dignity and
freedom of
of all
all individuals
she also
also presents
presents a
a flow
diagram beginning
beginning with
with gathering
gathering facts
facts leading
leading to
analysis and
and judgment
judgment and
and incorporating
incorporating decision
loops to
to reconsider
reconsider answers
answers to
to questions
these and
and numerous
numerous readings
readings have
have been
been used
throughout our
our course
course but
but none
none provided
provided the
the kind
kind of
framework or
or guide
guide needed
needed for
for our
our students
students as
as they
worked towards
towards resolutions
resolutions of
of their
their problems
very helpful
helpful resource
resource i
i have
have used
used is
is the
the thinkers
guide to
to understanding
understanding the
the foundations
foundations of
of ethical
reasoning critical
critical thinking
thinking concept
concept and
and tools
tools by
richard paul
paul and
and linda
linda elder
this brief
brief guide
provides a
a concise
concise discussion
discussion of
of the
the importance
importance of
critical thinking
thinking and
and the
the elements
elements of
of thought
thought a
checklist for
for reasoning
reasoning and
and a
a series
series of
of questions
questions using
these elements
it also
also summarizes
summarizes problems
problems of
egocentric thinking
thinking and
and introduces
introduces a
a concise
concise and
straightforward introduction
introduction to
to the
the function
function of
of ethics
expanding on
on the
the discussion
discussion of
of egocentric
egocentric thought
and addressing
addressing problems
problems of
of pseudoethics
discusses the
the differences
differences between
between ethics
ethics and
and religion
social conventions
conventions sexual
sexual taboos
taboos political
political ideology
and the
the law
the authors
authors also
also remind
remind the
the readers
readers of
why it
it is
is important
important to
to distinguish
distinguish among
among questions
questions of
ethics social
social conventions
conventions religion
religion and
and law
law and
and they
present a
a series
series of
of elements
elements of
of ethical
ethical reasoning
propose an
an eightstep
eightstep process
process to
to determine
determine the
the logic
logic of
an ethical
ethical question
question purpose
purpose considering
considering an
individuals rights
rights and
and needs
needs as
as well
well as
as those
those of
others key
key ethical
ethical questions
questions information
needed to
to answer
answer the
the questions
questions concepts
concepts and
principles to
to guide
guide thinking
thinking main
main assumptions
used points
points of
of view
view of
of all
all stakeholders
stakeholders main
inferencesconclusions what
what are
are the
the alternatives
alternatives are
all being
being considered
considered etc
and implications
implications for
for self
and others
others including
including consequences
consequences questions
questions of
harmgood etc
this framework
framework has
has worked
worked successfully
successfully for
for students
to address
address a
a wide
wide range
range of
of questions
questions and
and problems
have also
also used
used it
it effectively
effectively as
as part
part of
of a
a brief
introduction to
to information
information ethics
ethics is
is our
our required
introductory course
course for
for library
library and
and information
science students
students understanding
understanding information
information in
other classes
classes and
and in
in continuing
continuing education
education workshop
in the
the introductory
introductory course
course students
students worked
worked in
in groups
of six
six to
to discuss
discuss the
the process
process they
they would
would use
use walking
through the
the eight
eight steps
steps to
to respond
respond to
to one
one of
of several
hypothetical examples
examples based
based on
on a
a realworld
realworld case
each case
case the
the students
students indicated
indicated that
that the
the framework
encourages them
them to
to ask
ask many
many questions
questions and
and to
examine different
different perspectives
perspectives and
and issues
they also
noted the
the usefulness
usefulness of
of the
the framework
framework in
in working
through individual
individual problems
a significant
significant flaw
flaw in
in the
framework is
is that
that it
it focuses
focuses on
on logic
logic and
and does
does not
recognize the
the individuals
individuals emotions
emotions and
and subjective
this leads
leads to
to a
a discussion
discussion of
of the
the importance
of recognizing
recognizing that
that no
no human
human is
is ever
ever totally
totally objective
and of
of learning
learning ones
ones own
own biases
biases personal
personal values
values and
cultural perspectives
the guide
guide seems
seems to
to be
be the
the best
tool in
in our
our courses
courses to
to help
help students
students work
work through
ethical reflection
reflection towards
towards making
making moral
moral decisions
because it
it focuses
focuses on
on steps
steps in
in critical
critical thinking
thinking and
encourages students
students to
to work
work through
through the
the steps
steps looping
back to
to earlier
earlier steps
steps in
in the
the process
the steps
steps rely
rely on
logic and
and objectivity
objectivity and
and do
do not
not take
take into
into account
account the
fact that
that no
no human
human is
is ever
ever completely
completely objective
shortcoming can
can of
of course
course be
be addressed
addressed by
by the
teacher through
through readings
readings and
and by
by raising
raising questions
questions in
the discussion
the guide
guide also
also serves
serves to
to help
help stimulate
discussion among
among students
students and
and encourage
encourage raising
questions about
about the
the many
many options
options to
to be
be considered
throughout the
the steps
proposed undergraduate
at this
this point
point the
the undergraduate
undergraduate course
course is
is in
in the
earliest planning
planning stages
several challenges
challenges must
must be
addressed teaching
teaching undergraduates
undergraduates rather
rather than
graduate students
students making
making the
the course
course both
both attractive
and relevant
relevant for
for undergraduates
undergraduates and
and incorporating
appropriate technologies
although i
i have
have had
had the
occasional undergraduate
undergraduate in
in my
my classes
classes usually
usually from
our bsis
bsis program
program or
or the
the honors
honors college
college with
with one
student from
from the
the school
school of
of engineering
engineering i
i have
have not
taught undergraduates
while i
i have
have done
done some
research about
about differences
differences in
in expectations
expectations learning
styles and
and experiences
experiences in
in the
the social
social web
web i
i must
admit to
to some
some trepidation
recognizing that
that an
an increasing
increasing number
number of
of students
students in
my introductory
introductory courses
courses enter
enter directly
directly from
from college
and knowing
knowing that
that students
students in
in this
this upperlevel
upperlevel course
will be
be predominantly
predominantly college
college seniors
seniors reduces
reduces this
concern to
to a
a great
great extent
building on
on the
the extensive
extensive use
use of
of case
case studies
studies and
online discussions
discussions and
and group
group interaction
interaction in
in my
courses i
i enrolled
enrolled in
in a
a daylong
daylong workshop
workshop in
in casebased
casebased learning
this workshop
workshop was
was extremely
extremely helpful
and helped
helped me
me determine
determine that
that this
this was
was the
the approach
approach to
i have
have decided
decided to
to use
use cases
cases based
based on
on three
primary areas
areas intellectual
intellectual property
property protection
protection and
use particularly
particularly downloading
downloading of
of music
music and
and videos
freedom of
of expression
expression e
restrictions on
on hate
speech at
at universities
universities content
content on
on facebook
facebook myspace
and gaming
i am
am currently
currently examining
examining the
growing literature
literature on
on these
these three
three areas
areas especially
existing case
case studies
studies to
to determine
determine which
which readings
readings and
examples to
to include
i plan
plan to
to use
use fiction
fiction and
and nonfiction
nonfiction if
if possible
possible getting
getting the
the assistance
assistance of
of an
undergraduate to
to help
help identify
identify pertinent
pertinent literature
simulation models
models related
related specifically
specifically to
to information
ethics are
are starting
starting to
to appear
appear in
in the
the research
research literature
at the
the alise
alise conference
conference i
i learned
learned of
of one
one being
developed by
by ken
ken fleischmann
fleischmann at
at the
the university
university of
maryland and
and his
his colleagues
colleagues and
and we
we have
have agreed
that we
we will
will collaborate
he will
will make
make available
available the
beta version
version when
when it
it becomes
becomes available
available from
from his
research project
project which
which will
will probably
probably not
not be
be for
for at
least two
two years
years and
and i
i will
will provide
provide ideas
ideas on
on content
and presentation
in addition
addition as
as part
part of
of a
a proposal
proposal i
am developing
developing with
with colleagues
colleagues in
in information
information science
and telecommunications
telecommunications we
we will
will identify
identify ways
ways our
two projects
projects if
if ours
ours is
is funded
funded can
can share
share information
and learn
learn from
from each
each others
even if
if our
our proposal
proposal is
not selected
selected to
to go
go forward
forward as
as the
the single
single proposal
proposal from
the university
university or
or if
if it
it is
is not
not funded
funded i
i plan
plan to
to work
with these
these colleagues
colleagues to
to develop
develop and
and incorporate
simulations into
into the
the course
this work
work is
is in
in the
the earliest
earliest stages
stages and
and i
i would
appreciate comments
comments and
and suggestions
suggestions for
for the
the proposed
course to
to help
help make
make it
it as
as good
good as
as it
it can
can be
capurro et
et al
froehlich and
see e
mendina rockenbach
rockenbach and
infoethics first
first international
international congress
congress on
ethicallegaland societal
societal aspects
aspects ofdigital
sponsored by
by unesco
in carbo
carbo t
international information
information and
and library
library review
international center
center for
for information
information ethics
symposium karlsruhe
karlsruhe germany
germany october
ijie international
international journal
journal of
of information
ethics httpcontainer
world summit
summit on
on the
the information
information society
declaration of
of principles
first african
african information
information ethics
ethics conference
ethical challenges
challenges in
in the
the information
information age
pretoria south
south africa
international review
review of
of information
froehlich t
ethical considerations
considerations of
information professionals
annual review
review of
information science
science and
and technology
beghtol clare
a proposed
proposed ethical
ethical warrant
for global
global knowledge
knowledge representation
representation and
organization systems
journal of
of documentation
mason richard
richard o
florence m
mason and
mary j
ethics of
of information
sage thousand
thousand oaks
oaks california
woodward diana
a framework
framework for
for deciding
issues in
in ethics
library trends
summer fall
oboyle edward
edward j
an ethical
ethical decisionmaking
decisionmaking process
process for
for computing
computing professionals
ethics and
and information
information technology
ottoson gerald
gerald h
a model
model for
for ethical
paul r
and l
the thinkers
thinkers guide
to understanding
understanding the
the foundations
foundations of
of ethical
dillon beach
beach the
the foundation
foundation for
critical thinking
fleischmann k
robbins r
robbins and
wallace w
educational simulation
simulation for
information ethics
presentation at
at the
the association
for library
library and
and information
information science
science education
philadelphia pa
ethics information
information technology
technology and
todays undergraduate
undergraduate classroom
paul conway
university of
of michigan
university ave
ann arbor
arbor mi
this paper
paper highlights
highlights interdisciplinary
interdisciplinary research
research grounding
grounding a
course that
that is
is one
one of
of the
the core
core requirements
requirements of
of a
a new
undergraduate informatics
informatics curriculum
ethics and
and information
technology explores
explores the
the ethical
ethical dilemmas
dilemmas that
that exist
exist where
where human
beings information
information objects
objects and
and information
information systems
systems interact
course tests
tests the
the notion
notion that
that the
the most
most effective
effective way
way to
to explore
explore how
new technologies
technologies relate
relate to
to integrity
integrity truthfulness
truthfulness trust
trust respect
respect for
privacy and
and individuality
individuality is
is to
to become
become immersed
immersed in
in a
technological environment
environment where
where unethical
unethical behavior
behavior as
as well
well as
ethical norms
norms can
can be
be safely
safely and
and confidentially
confidentially tested
tested evaluated
observed and
and experienced
the paper
paper will
will summarize
summarize an
emerging literature
literature in
in three
three areas
areas the
the theories
theories of
of ethics
ethics and
information technology
technology the
the characteristics
characteristics of
of the
the net
generation regarding
regarding the
the use
use of
of new
new technologies
technologies and
and the
central role
role played
played by
by trust
trust in
in assessing
assessing the
the ethical
ethical implications
of new
new technologies
technologies including
including online
online multiplayer
multiplayer games
games image
editing collaborative
collaborative authoring
authoring and
and open
open source
source coding
the paper
paper will
will then
then demonstrate
demonstrate how
how this
this literature
informs the
the design
design and
and implementation
implementation of
of the
the course
information policy
policy ethics
ethics and
and law
undergraduate education
education information
information ethics
ethics pedagogy
a new
new course
course ethics
ethics and
and information
information technology
technology is
is a
a significant
contribution by
by the
the university
university of
of michigans
michigans school
school of
information to
to a
a new
new undergraduate
undergraduate concentration
concentration in
in informatics
the course
course is
is one
one of
of four
four required
required core
core courses
courses for
for the
the newly
approved major
major which
which itself
itself represents
represents a
a deep
deep collaboration
among faculty
faculty across
across three
three university
university schools
the uniqueness
uniqueness of
the undertaking
undertaking raises
raises the
the stakes
stakes challenging
challenging the
the faculty
faculty of
of each
school to
to define
define a
a rich
rich field
field of
of study
study in
in ways
ways that
that resonates
intellectually across
across the
the entire
entire partnership
the nature
nature of
of this
crosscampus collaboration
collaboration influences
influences the
the design
design of
of new
new courses
as well
well as
as the
the approaches
approaches to
to undergraduate
undergraduate education
ethics and
information technology
technology tests
tests the
the notion
notion that
that the
the most
most effective
way to
to explore
explore how
how emerging
emerging technologies
technologies relate
relate to
to information
ethics is
is to
to immerse
immerse students
students in
in a
a technological
technological environment
where unethical
unethical behavior
behavior as
as well
well as
as ethical
ethical norms
norms can
can be
be safely
and confidentially
confidentially tested
tested evaluated
evaluated observed
observed and
and experienced
in this
this regard
regard the
the course
course exists
exists at
at the
the intersection
intersection of
of technology
ethics and
and pedagogy
this paper
paper frames
frames the
the principal
principal theoretical
issues that
that underlie
underlie the
the design
design of
of the
the course
course and
and outlines
outlines its
its most
salient pedagogical
pedagogical features
ethics is
is variously
variously defined
defined o
as a
a branch
branch of
of philosophy
concerned with
with evaluating
evaluating human
human action
action the
the study
study of
of individual
or group
group values
values or
or a
a system
system of
of defining
defining right
right and
and wrong
when applied
applied to
to the
the professions
professions ethics
ethics defines
defines a
a code
of standards
standards governing
governing fair
fair and
and responsible
responsible conduct
conduct with
with other
members of
of a
a profession
profession and
and the
the general
general public
in association
with computer
computer and
and information
information technologies
technologies ethics
ethics concerns
concerns the
relationship of
of systems
systems with
with the
the people
people who
who use
use them
recently the
the concept
concept of
of information
information ethics
ethics has
has extended
philosophical consideration
consideration well
well beyond
beyond the
the human
human behavior
behavior to
explore the
the ethical
ethical properties
properties of
of information
information objects
the study
study of
of ethics
ethics within
within the
the context
context of
of information
information technology
is international
international in
in scope
the international
international center
center for
for information
ethics icie
icie identifies
identifies individuals
individuals in
in over
over organizations
around the
the world
world whose
whose primary
primary field
field of
of scholarship
scholarship and
and teaching
is information
information ethics
ethics with
with germany
germany japan
japan the
the united
united kingdom
and the
the united
united states
states having
having a
a particularly
particularly strong
strong presence
presence in
in the
for the
the united
united states
states icies
icies selective
selective database
database lists
individuals in
in universities
universities with
with a
a primary
primary focus
focus on
on information
ethics research
nearly a
a dozen
dozen scholarly
scholarly journals
journals continuing
sequences of
of international
international conferences
conferences and
and highly
highly touted
monographs and
and compendiums
compendiums attest
attest to
to the
the deepening
deepening scholarly
interest in
in ethics
ethics and
and emerging
emerging technologies
the teaching
teaching of
of ethics
ethics has
has traditionally
traditionally been
been an
an important
important element
of the
the university
university curriculum
the university
university of
of michigans
michigans ethics
in public
public life
life initiative
initiative for
for example
example has
has compiled
compiled a
a current
current list
of over
over regularlyscheduled
regularlyscheduled courses
courses that
that involve
involve ethics
ethics as
as a
substantial component
academic disciplines
disciplines offering
offering these
courses range
range from
from the
the traditional
traditional and
and obvious
obvious e
to the
the more
more subtle
subtle and
and nuanced
nuanced e
environmental studies
every professional
professional school
school at
at michigan
michigan offers
offers at
at least
least one
one course
at the
the graduate
graduate level
level focused
focused on
on either
either professional
professional ethics
ethics or
ethics policies
policies appropriate
appropriate to
to the
the profession
those professional
schools that
that offer
offer undergraduate
undergraduate courses
courses or
or degrees
degrees include
include but
do not
not necessarily
necessarily require
require the
the study
study of
of ethical
ethical issues
issues to
to complete
complete a
ethics in
in the
the ischools
ischools however
however presents
presents a
a paradox
ethics is
simultaneously a
a core
core principle
principle governing
governing the
the formulation
formulation of
of their
teaching missions
missions and
and a
a minor
minor or
or peripheral
peripheral area
area of
of research
the one
one hand
hand the
the websites
websites for
for all
all of
of the
the ischools
ischools describe
ethics as
as one
one of
of their
their important
important areas
areas of
of concern
nearly all
ischools offer
offer specific
specific graduatelevel
graduatelevel courses
courses that
that include
include an
investigation of
of either
either professional
professional ethics
ethics or
or ethics
ethics policy
policy issues
and yet
yet six
six of
of the
the members
members of
of the
the consortium
consortium of
of ischools
account for
for a
a total
total of
of only
only eight
eight faculty
faculty in
in the
the icie
icie database
database of
research specialists
specialists in
in information
information ethics
although the
the icie
database does
does not
not reflect
reflect the
the efforts
efforts of
of faculty
faculty who
who primarily
primarily or
exclusively teach
teach ethics
ethics it
it is
is clear
clear that
that research
research on
on ethics
ethics is
is not
not at
this point
point in
in time
time a
a central
central research
research or
or teaching
teaching strength
strength of
of most
a framework
the undergraduate
undergraduate course
course ethics
ethics and
and information
information technology
exists at
at the
the intersection
intersection of
of three
three distinctive
distinctive concepts
concepts the
philosophy of
of ethics
ethics the
the social
social characteristics
characteristics of
of emerging
information technologies
technologies and
and the
the learning
learning styles
styles of
of a
particular cohort
cohort of
of students
although literature
literature on
on the
the theoretical
foundation for
for each
each of
of these
these areas
areas is
is vast
vast there
there is
is a
a particular
the mcrobb
mcrobb framework
framework and
and its
its supporting
supporting literature
literature is
is oriented
toward the
the ethical
ethical issues
issues involved
involved in
in distance
distance learning
learning drawing
for support
support on
on the
the literature
literature of
of computer
computer supported
supported collaborative
the conceptual
conceptual model
model represented
represented by
by the
the mcrobb
illustration however
however provides
provides a
a convenient
convenient mechanism
mechanism for
highlighting how
how the
the issues
issues that
that are
are at
at the
the heart
heart of
of the
the michigan
course overlap
overlap and
and intersect
the framework
framework includes
includes three
pressures that
that constrain
constrain the
the content
content of
of the
the three
three issue
issue areas
among them
them the
the expectations
expectations of
of a
a wider
wider audience
audience regarding
regarding the
evolving role
role of
of ethics
ethics education
education in
in the
the academy
academy the
the limitations
imposed by
by university
university technology
technology systems
systems and
and perspectives
perspectives of
various professional
professional bodies
bodies or
or academic
academic disciplines
disciplines on
on the
appropriate approaches
approaches to
to ethics
ethics education
each of
of these
constraining issues
issues is
is at
at work
work in
in the
the design
design of
of a
a course
course that
purports to
to exist
exist outside
outside the
the boundaries
boundaries of
of the
the existing
existing curriculum
ethics and
and information
information technology
technology is
is not
not only
only a
a new
new course
course but
one that
that straddles
straddles and
and attempts
attempts to
to incorporate
incorporate the
the perspectives
perspectives of
the three
three disciplines
disciplines that
that are
are contributing
contributing to
to the
the new
new informatics
the framework
framework is
is most
most relevant
relevant in
in identifying
identifying three
three distinctive
intellectual spaces
spaces where
where conceptual
conceptual overlap
overlap creates
creates interesting
new perspectives
first the
the boundary
boundary where
where the
the study
study of
of ethics
and the
the characteristics
characteristics of
of emerging
emerging technology
technology overlap
overlap labeled
labeled in
the figure
figure as
as computer
computer ethics
ethics provides
provides a
a set
set of
of useful
useful ethical
models that
that are
are the
the intellectual
intellectual structure
structure of
of course
second the
boundary where
where ethics
ethics and
and pedagogy
pedagogy overlap
overlap orients
orients the
the courses
interactive design
design and
and the
the flow
flow of
of the
the individual
individual course
course modules
third the
the boundary
boundary where
where technology
technology and
and pedagogy
pedagogy overlap
provides the
the rationale
rationale for
for an
an immersive
immersive technology
technology environment
in which
which students
students and
and instructor
instructor model
model the
the challenges
challenges posed
posed by
by a
suite of
of technologies
ethics and
and technology
scholarship on
on the
the relationships
relationships between
between information
information technology
and ethical
ethical beliefs
beliefs and
and behaviors
behaviors have
have been
been debated
debated and
and refined
for the
the past
past fifty
fifty years
how this
this scholarship
scholarship informs
informs the
the teaching
of these
these relationships
relationships is
is less
less well
well understood
the links
links between
between technology
technology pedagogy
pedagogy and
and ethics
absence of
of literature
literature that
that addresses
addresses the
the theoretical
theoretical foundations
challenges at
at the
the intersection
mcrobb jefferies
jefferies and
and stahl
propose a
a framework
framework that
that describes
describes research
research findings
findings in
in the
the areas
where the
the concepts
concepts overlap
overlap and
and establishes
establishes a
a domain
domain where
where the
concepts of
of ethics
ethics technology
technology and
and pedagogy
pedagogy are
are most
most dynamic
figure is
is the
the authors
authors graphic
graphic illustration
illustration of
of their
their framework
terrell bynum
bynum credits
credits the
the american
american philosopherscientist
howard weiner
weiner the
the founder
founder of
of the
the science
science of
of cybernetics
cybernetics with
foreseeing the
the enormous
enormous ethical
ethical and
and social
social impacts
impacts of
of information
technology and
and laying
laying the
the groundwork
groundwork for
for the
the study
study of
of computer
writing in
in the
the s
s wiener
wiener grounded
grounded his
his ethical
ethical theories
of computer
computer technology
technology in
in the
the view
view that
that human
human beings
beings are
complex information
information feedback
feedback system
system that
that govern
govern their
relationships with
with other
other humans
humans and
and the
the world
world around
around them
drawing on
on aristotle
aristotle and
and flowing
flowing through
through weiners
weiners systems
perspective bynum
bynum proposes
proposes that
that the
the purpose
purpose of
of human
human life
life is
is to
flourish as
as a
a person
person and
and to
to do
do so
so through
through a
a diversity
diversity of
information processing
processing activities
in this
this regard
regard the
the principal
value of
of information
information technology
technology is
is to
to extend
extend human
human potential
potential by
reinforcing the
the principles
principles of
of freedom
freedom equality
equality and
and benevolence
weiner simultaneously
simultaneously defined
defined the
the ethical
ethical underpinnings
underpinnings of
vannevar bushs
bushs memex
memex and
and anticipated
anticipated the
the collaborative
collaborative social
technologies of
of douglas
douglas englebart
bynum and
and others
others see
see the
culmination of
of wieners
wieners vision
vision of
of flourishing
flourishing ethics
ethics in
in the
theoretical constructs
constructs of
of luciano
luciano floridis
floridis infosphere
james moor
moor is
is a
a bridge
bridge from
from the
the discipline
discipline of
of computer
computer ethics
ethics to
the broader
broader world
world of
of information
information ethics
moor initially
defined computer
computer ethics
ethics in
in terms
terms of
of a
a policy
policy vacuum
vacuum that
that occurs
when new
new technological
technological capabilities
capabilities provide
provide new
new choices
choices for
action in
in an
an environment
environment where
where existing
existing policies
policies seem
computer ethics
ethics includes
includes consideration
consideration of
of both
personal and
and social
social policies
policies for
for the
the ethical
ethical use
use of
of computer
writing twenty
twenty years
years later
later following
following the
the explosion
explosion of
the world
world wide
wide web
web and
and the
the emergence
emergence of
of widespread
widespread social
computing applications
applications moor
moor called
called for
for a
a more
more flexible
flexible and
and agile
approach to
to investigating
investigating the
the relationship
relationship of
of new
new technologies
technologies to
human ethical
ethical behavior
moor establishes
establishes a
a three
three part
part progressive
progressive model
model of
technology development
development that
that relates
relates the
the maturity
maturity of
of revolutionary
technology to
to increasing
increasing ethical
ethical complexity
according to
to his
model more
more people
people will
will be
be involved
involved more
more technology
technology will
will be
used and
and hence
hence more
more policy
policy vacuums
vacuums and
and conceptual
conceptual muddles
will arise
arise as
as the
the revolution
revolution advances
in the
the case
case of
of emergent
immature or
or experimental
experimental technologies
technologies such
such as
as the
the socially
oriented tools
tools and
and systems
systems typified
typified by
by the
the overused
overused moniker
moniker web
moor postulates
postulates his
his own
own law
law which
which states
states that
that as
technological revolutions
revolutions increase
increase their
their social
social impact
impact ethical
problems increase
increase because
because revolutionary
revolutionary technology
technology provides
many new
new opportunities
opportunities for
for action
action for
for which
which well
well thought
thought out
ethical policies
policies will
will not
not have
have been
been developed
moor lays
lays out
three approaches
approaches to
to study
study new
new technologies
technologies from
from an
an ethical
perspective including
including investigating
investigating new
new technologies
technologies before
before they
have stabilized
stabilized using
using multidisciplinary
multidisciplinary approaches
approaches to
to research
and adopting
adopting sophisticated
sophisticated ethical
ethical analyses
analyses to
to avoid
avoid the
the tendency
to revert
revert to
to simplistic
simplistic costbenefit
costbenefit analyses
analyses that
that translate
translate ethical
choices into
into monetary
monetary terms
we need
need to
to learn
learn about
about the
technology as
as it
it is
is developing
developing and
and to
to project
project and
and assess
assess possible
consequences of
of its
its various
various applications
the michigan
michigan course
places students
students into
into a
a policyweak
policyweak environment
environment populated
populated by
technologies whose
whose use
use and
and abuse
abuse are
are not
not fully
fully understood
an important
important open
open question
question at
at the
the intersection
intersection of
of ethics
ethics and
technology is
is whether
whether the
the social
social dynamics
dynamics of
of new
new technologies
are generating
generating new
new ethical
ethical models
models of
of behavior
in addressing
addressing this
question himma
himma focuses
focuses on
on the
the role
role of
of ethics
ethics in
in informed
decision making
he reviews
reviews and
and ultimately
ultimately dismisses
dismisses claims
claims that
computer ethics
ethics has
has a
a claim
claim to
to theoretical
theoretical uniqueness
understanding computing
computing technologies
technologies will
will help
help to
to produce
wellinformed ethical
ethical views
views regardless
regardless of
of how
how we
we characterize
those technologies
rafael capurro
capurro adds
adds another
another dimension
dimension by
by highlighting
highlighting the
nature of
of the
the content
content that
that is
is embedded
embedded in
in or
or made
made accessible
accessible by
networked technologies
he argues
argues for
for a
a holistic
holistic view
view of
information that
that is
is attentive
attentive to
to the
the mass
mass transformationtransition
of content
content from
from analog
analog to
to digital
in this
this broader
broader sense
information ethics
ethics deals
deals with
with questions
questions of
of digitalization
digitalization i
reconstruction of
of all
all possible
possible phenomena
phenomena in
in the
the world
world as
as digital
information and
and the
the problems
problems caused
caused by
by their
their exchange
combination and
and utilization
capurro makes
makes an
an essential
connection between
between communication
communication technologies
technologies and
and the
the human
propensity to
to share
share and
and preserve
a basic
basic moral
moral principle
principle of
of the
information environment
environment he
he claims
claims is
is to
to share
share knowledge
knowledge or
the right
right to
to communicate
communicate in
in a
a digital
digital environment
environment which
which includes
the right
right to
to preserve
preserve what
what we
we communicate
communicate for
for future
capurro reminds
reminds us
us that
that the
the appropriation
appropriation of
modern information
information technology
technology is
is not
not just
just a
a technical
technical also
also but
but a
culturallybounded endeavor
luciano floridi
floridi presents
presents perhaps
perhaps the
the most
most well
well developed
philosophical perspective
perspective on
on the
the ethical
ethical issues
issues associated
associated with
information and
and communication
communication technologies
infosphere encompasses
encompasses not
not only
only cyberspace
cyberspace but
but also
also offline
and analog
analog information
information spaces
adopting an
an objectoriented
approach to
to the
the design
design of
of a
a new
new ethical
ethical model
model floridi
floridi defines
moral action
action as
as a
a dynamic
dynamic system
system arising
arising out
out of
of the
the interaction
of seven
seven principal
principal components
components the
the agent
agent the
the patient
their interactions
interactions the
the agents
agents general
general frame
frame of
of information
the factual
factual information
information concerning
concerning the
the situation
situation that
that is
is at
at least
partly available
available to
to the
the agent
agent the
the general
general environment
environment in
in which
the agent
agent and
and patient
patient are
are located
located and
and the
the specific
specific situation
situation in
which the
the interaction
interaction occurs
drawing deeply
deeply on
on environmental
physics floridi
floridi restates
restates that
that the
the fundamental
fundamental principles
principles or
or rules
of this
this dynamic
dynamic system
system are
are grounded
grounded in
in the
the notion
notion of
of information
entropy that
that is
is the
the destruction
destruction pollution
pollution and
and depletion
depletion of
information objects
objects ought
ought not
not to
to be
be caused
caused ought
ought to
to be
prevented ought
ought to
to be
be removed
removed and
and ought
ought to
to be
be protected
extended improved
improved enriched
enriched and
and enhanced
ecology as
as a
a parallel
floridis model
model and
and the
the norms
norms it
it proposes
structure the
the flow
flow of
of the
the michigan
michigan course
the real
real question
question for
for the
the intersection
intersection of
of ethics
ethics and
and technology
technology is
the extent
extent to
to which
which new
new technologies
technologies and
and the
the ways
ways that
that people
people use
them foster
foster new
new rules
rules of
of ethical
ethical behavior
behavior perhaps
perhaps culturally
determined or
or whether
whether long
long standing
standing principles
principles are
are transferred
transferred to
new technological
technological contexts
the pedagogical
pedagogical focus
focus of
of the
the course
is designed
designed in
in part
part to
to explore
explore this
this issue
issue dynamically
dynamically and
net generation
generation pedagogy
a course
course that
that examines
examines ethical
ethical issues
issues associated
associated with
with new
technologies must
must necessarily
necessarily take
take account
account of
of the
the learning
learning styles
and the
the general
general attitudes
attitudes of
of the
the undergraduates
undergraduates who
who enroll
conceptual design
design of
of the
the course
course as
as well
well as
as its
its intellectual
intellectual flow
flow of
the individual
individual modules
modules and
and use
use of
of technology
technology tools
tools in
in and
and outside
the classroom
classroom are
are in
in part
part predicated
predicated on
on the
the notion
notion that
that todays
generation of
of undergraduates
undergraduates is
is somehow
somehow different
different than
than previous
allowing for
for fluidity
fluidity in
in the
the boundary
boundary lines
lines a
a case
case can
can be
be made
that at
at any
any point
point in
in time
time generational
generational cohorts
cohorts bound
bound by
by shared
experiences and
and history
history exhibit
exhibit behavioral
behavioral and
and attitudinal
commentators have
have labeled
labeled the
the generation
generation of
of students
born since
since a
a somewhat
somewhat arbitrary
arbitrary point
point in
in time
time as
as the
the net
generation in
in part
part because
because they
they have
have grown
grown up
up with
with the
widespread availability
availability of
of personal
personal computers
computers and
and the
the internet
strauss and
and howe
howe characterize
characterize the
the members
members of
of the
the net
generation as
as sheltered
sheltered and
and protected
protected but
but pressured
pressured to
to excel
endowed with
with a
a strong
strong sense
sense of
of their
their own
own specialness
specialness indicated
by high
high selfesteem
selfesteem confident
confident and
and optimistic
they may
may be
more team
team oriented
oriented than
than previous
previous generations
generations more
more comfortable
than average
average with
with multitasking
multitasking and
and very
very literate
literate in
in the
the realm
realm of
digital and
and visual
visual technologies
gibbons argues
argues that
that the
affinity of
of todays
todays undergraduates
undergraduates for
for information
information technology
translates into
into new
new and
and different
different expectation
expectation about
about how
how to
gather work
work with
with translate
translate and
and share
share information
the apparent
apparent naturalness
naturalness with
with which
which undergraduates
undergraduates embrace
new technologies
technologies leads
leads some
some commentators
commentators to
to see
see technological
determinism at
at work
lippincott argues
argues that
that digital
digital natives
have acquired
acquired styles
styles of
of learning
learning and
and modes
modes of
of interpersonal
interaction as
as a
a direct
direct result
result of
of the
the availability
availability of
of network
technologies suggesting
suggesting that
that the
the implications
implications of
of this
this fact
fact extend
beyond the
the classroom
classroom to
to challenge
challenge and
and change
change the
the mission
mission and
purposes of
of libraries
libraries and
and other
other information
information services
nye and
most scholars
scholars of
of the
the history
history of
of science
science and
and technology
technology reject
reject the
deterministic thesis
thesis arguing
arguing instead
instead that
that people
people become
enmeshed in
in a
a web
web of
of technical
technical choices
choices made
made for
for them
them by
by their
ancestors helping
helping to
to explain
explain why
why people
people may
may seem
seem trapped
trapped by
the choices
choices others
others have
have made
the design
design of
of the
the michigan
michigan course
course rejects
rejects a
a deterministic
deterministic view
view of
the technologies
technologies it
it utilizes
utilizes but
but starts
starts with
with the
the premise
premise that
that there
are generational
generational differences
differences in
in the
the perspectives
perspectives of
of students
students and
such differences
differences may
may be
be manifested
manifested genuinely
genuinely in
varying comfort
comfort levels
levels with
with new
new and
and emerging
emerging technologies
the courses
courses structure
structure flow
flow and
and assessment
assessment methodologies
methodologies leave
open the
the question
question of
of whether
whether net
net generation
generation learners
learners harbor
harbor a
distinctive ethical
ethical world
world view
view in
in the
the use
use of
of these
these technologies
the centrality
centrality of
of trust
the mcrobb
mcrobb et
et al
framework figure
figure places
places a
a question
question mark
at the
the center
center of
of its
its analytical
analytical framework
framework where
where ethics
ethics technology
and pedagogy
pedagogy meet
in their
their review
review of
of the
the associated
associated research
literature the
the authors
authors found
found that
that there
there seems
seems to
to be
be little
little interest
in the
the exploration
exploration of
of the
the intersection
intersection of
of those
those areaswhat
appears to
to be
be lacking
lacking is
is a
a good
good overview
overview of
of the
the relationships
relationships of
the different
different issues
issues involved
in adapting
adapting the
the mcrobb
mcrobb framework
framework course
course designers
designers used
used the
concept of
of trust
trust as
as an
an organizing
organizing principle
principle for
for the
the individual
the o
defines trust
trust as
as confidence
confidence in
in or
or reliance
on some
some quality
quality or
or attribute
attribute of
of a
a person
person or
or thing
thing or
or the
the truth
truth of
of a
in placing
placing trust
trust at
at the
the intersection
intersection of
of ethics
information technology
technology and
and pedagogy
pedagogy the
the michigan
michigan course
opens students
students to
to an
an examination
examination of
of trust
trust from
from multiple
perspectives for
for example
example trust
trust in
in individual
individual identity
identity trust
trust of
of the
integrity of
of digital
digital content
content trust
trust in
in the
the transparency
transparency of
of open
source code
code and
and the
the community
community of
of people
people who
who create
create it
as the
case studies
studies in
in hutchings
hutchings demonstrate
demonstrate the
the notion
notion of
of trust
also enters
enters into
into the
the dynamic
dynamic engagements
engagements between
between teacher
teacher and
student as
as well
well as
as student
student to
to student
student interactions
interactions inside
inside and
outside of
of class
in terms
terms of
of identity
identity with
with the
the context
context of
of the
the course
course buchanan
buchanan and
ess demonstrate
demonstrate that
that trust
trust bears
bears on
on the
the extent
extent to
to which
behavior within
within a
a virtual
virtual environment
environment is
is conditioned
conditioned by
knowledge of
of the
the identity
identity of
of the
the agents
agents within
within the
the environment
the creation
creation modification
modification and
and behaviors
behaviors of
of avatars
avatars in
in an
an online
environment is
is a
a particularly
particularly apt
apt example
example of
of identity
identity trust
chesney follows
follows the
the same
same line
line of
of reasoning
reasoning in
in examining
examining the
trust metrics
metrics underlying
underlying such
such collaborative
collaborative writing
writing efforts
efforts as
in terms
terms of
of content
content trust
trust is
is intimately
intimately related
related to
to the
the notion
notion of
integrity which
which duranti
duranti defines
defines universally
universally for
for textual
documents in
in terms
terms of
of reliability
reliability and
and authenticity
it is
is generally
accepted by
by all
all literate
literate civilizations
civilizations that
that documents
documents are
trustworthy that
that is
is reliable
reliable because
because of
of their
their completeness
completeness and
controlled procedure
procedure of
of creation
creation and
and which
which are
are guaranteed
guaranteed to
to be
intact and
and what
what they
they purport
purport to
to be
be that
that is
is authentic
authentic by
controlled procedures
procedures of
of transmission
transmission and
and preservation
preservation can
can be
presumed to
to be
be truthful
truthful that
that is
is genuine
genuine as
as to
to their
their content
mitchell reaches
reaches a
a less
less technical
technical but
but no
no less
less measurable
conclusion in
in reference
reference to
to trust
trust in
in visual
visual content
if an
an image
follows the
the conventions
conventions of
of photography
photography and
and seems
seems internally
coherent if
if the
the visual
visual evidence
evidence that
that it
it presents
presents support
support the
caption and
and if
if we
we can
can confirm
confirm that
that this
this visual
visual evidence
evidence is
consistent with
with other
other things
things that
that we
we accept
accept as
as knowledge
knowledge within
the framework
framework of
of the
the relevant
relevant discourse
discourse then
then we
we feel
feel justified
justified in
the attitude
attitude that
that seeing
seeing is
is believing
designing a
a course
as conceived
conceived at
at michigan
michigan ethics
ethics and
and information
information technology
technology is
one of
of four
four courses
courses of
of a
a new
new undergraduate
undergraduate concentration
concentration in
the multidisciplinary
multidisciplinary concentration
concentration is
is a
a collaborative
undertaking among
among faculty
faculty from
from the
the universitys
universitys computer
science engineering
engineering division
division within
within the
the college
college of
engineering the
the department
department of
of statistics
statistics within
within the
the college
college of
literature science
science and
and the
the arts
arts lsa
lsa and
and the
the school
school of
the undergraduate
undergraduate concentration
concentration is
is based
based in
in lsa
but draws
draws on
on faculty
faculty from
from all
all three
three schools
program development
is led
led by
by a
a steering
steering committee
committee of
of two
two senior
senior faculty
faculty from
from each
each of
the participating
participating schools
ethics and
and information
information technology
technology is
guided by
by the
the collaborative
collaborative spirit
spirit of
of the
the faculty
faculty development
team but
but is
is being
being designed
designed and
and will
will be
be taught
taught by
by a
a team
team of
of two
faculty one
one from
from the
the college
college of
of engineering
engineering and
and one
one from
from the
school of
of information
ethics and
and information
information technology
technology explores
explores the
the ethical
ethical dilemmas
that exist
exist where
where human
human beings
beings information
information objects
objects and
information systems
systems interact
modular in
in design
design the
the course
introduces students
students to
to a
a variety
variety of
of ethical
ethical models
models from
from historical
and crosscultural
crosscultural perspectives
perspectives and
and then
then explores
explores the
the relevance
relevance of
these models
models to
to a
a variety
variety of
of new
new and
and emerging
emerging technologies
technologies that
are inherently
inherently social
social in
in their
their construction
construction and
and use
examples of
of issues
issues that
that the
the course
course covers
covers in
in discrete
discrete modules
interpersonal engagement
engagement through
through online
online games
games and
virtual environments
the integrity
integrity of
of digital
digital content
content in
in a
a networked
networked world
tradeoffs between
between security
security and
and openness
openness of
of code
code data
and information
information systems
students explore
explore the
the technological
technological underpinnings
underpinnings of
of associated
technology systems
systems experiment
experiment with
with individual
individual and
and group
interaction with
with technologies
technologies and
and examine
examine the
the mechanics
mechanics of
ethical and
and unethical
unethical behaviors
the course
course has
has two
two major
major instructional
instructional objectives
objectives integrate
opportunities for
for direct
direct handson
handson technical
technical experiences
experiences in
in order
to enhance
enhance understanding
understanding of
of ethical
ethical challenges
challenges presented
presented by
by new
information technologies
technologies and
and offer
offer opportunities
opportunities to
participate via
via inclass
inclass discussions
discussions short
short posts
posts submitted
submitted to
to an
online discussion
discussion board
board and
and longer
longer written
written assignments
assignments in
in order
to encourage
encourage multimodal
multimodal contributions
contributions by
by students
with the
the objective
objective are
are three
three related
related learning
learning outcomes
demonstrate knowledge
knowledge of
of current
current theories
theories in
in information
information ethics
apply ethics
ethics theories
theories to
to interpret
interpret behavior
behavior when
when using
using a
variety of
of information
information technology
technology tools
tools and
and evaluate
evaluate the
nature of
of ethical
ethical choices
choices made
made by
by self
self and
and others
others when
when serving
various roles
new information
information technologies
technologies raise
raise knotty
knotty issues
issues regarding
integrity truthfulness
truthfulness trust
trust respect
respect for
for privacy
privacy and
and individuality
as well
well as
as the
the variations
variations in
in ethical
ethical behavior
behavior across
across gender
gender racial
and ethnic
ethnic group
group socioeconomic
socioeconomic class
class sexual
sexual orientation
orientation and
global cultures
cultures the
the course
course tests
tests the
the notion
notion that
that the
the most
most effective
way to
to explore
explore these
these issues
issues is
is to
to become
become immersed
immersed in
in a
technological environment
environment where
where unethical
unethical behavior
behavior as
as well
well as
ethical norms
norms can
can be
be safely
safely and
and confidentially
confidentially tested
tested evaluated
observed and
and experienced
the course
course will
will mix
mix experiential
learning with
with individual
individual and
and group
group interaction
interaction with
with a
a variety
variety of
this course
course is
is unique
unique in
in its
its construction
construction and
and in
in its
its mix
mix of
technological tools
tools for
for instruction
although a
a vibrant
vibrant literature
literature is
emerging on
on approaches
approaches to
to teaching
teaching ethics
ethics and
and information
technology and
and on
on the
the use
use of
of technology
technology in
in the
the classroom
relatively little
little is
is known
known about
about learning
learning processes
processes and
and learning
outcomes in
in the
the combination
combination of
of ethics
ethics and
and emerging
emerging social
the course
course will
will in
in part
part form
form a
a test
test environment
environment for
learning about
about how
how to
to use
use innovative
innovative technological
technological tools
tools to
to teach
about the
the ethical
ethical dilemmas
dilemmas posed
posed by
by these
these same
same technologies
significant instruction
instruction takes
takes place
place with
with the
the aid
aid of
of technological
tools available
available through
through an
an online
online virtual
virtual environment
environment build
build on
on the
sakai platform
platform that
that most
most university
university of
of michigan
michigan students
recognize as
as ctools
in a
a threepart
threepart exercise
exercise students
students examine
examine a
a set
set of
of photographic
images to
to which
which various
various enhancement
enhancement algorithms
algorithms and
and editorial
techniques have
have been
been applied
working in
in teams
teams of
of two
two to
to four
individuals students
students will
will then
then categorize
categorize a
a set
set of
of existing
digitized photo
photo images
images according
according to
to a
a four
four part
part rendering
rendering scheme
and evaluate
evaluate the
the truthfulness
truthfulness of
of the
the images
images within
within the
the scheme
finally students
students will
will assess
assess how
how meaningful
meaningful and
and trustworthy
trustworthy are
a set
set of
of images
images in
in an
an online
online exhibit
exhibit by
by comparing
comparing and
and contrasting
the messages
messages of
of the
the image
image with
with the
the messages
messages of
of the
accompanying text
assignment information
information integrity
integrity collaborative
collaborative editing
editing roll
students will
will be
be assigned
assigned randomly
randomly to
to one
one of
of four
four roles
roles known
author anonymous
anonymous author
author known
known editor
editor anonymous
anonymous editor
students will
will play
play their
their roles
roles in
in creating
creating and
and editing
editing content
content in
in a
classlimited wiki
topics chosen
chosen for
for creation
creation and
and editing
editing will
will be
determined by
by the
the class
students will
will be
be given
given explicit
assignments regarding
regarding the
the submission
submission of
of truthful
truthful and
and untruthful
content and
and on
on the
the rules
rules of
of engagement
engagement for
for adding
adding editing
editing and
deleting content
students will
will log
log their
their activities
activities and
and seek
seek to
create together
together a
a set
set of
of trustworthy
trustworthy wiki
wiki entries
during and
and after
after the
the exercise
exercise will
will explore
explore the
the challenges
challenges of
establishing and
and keeping
keeping trust
assignment secrecy
secrecy and
and openness
openness cryptography
example module
module assignments
assignment virtual
virtual environments
environments anonymity
students will
will create
create an
an avatar
avatar in
in a
a virtual
virtual world
world and
and adopt
adopt an
anonymous persona
they will
will interact
interact with
with their
their classmates
classmates in
in a
secure environment
environment over
over a
a period
period of
of several
several days
days and
and then
attempt to
to guess
guess which
which student
student each
each avatar
avatar represents
will maintain
maintain awareness
awareness of
of such
such factors
factors as
as whether
whether they
encountered any
any challenges
challenges in
in maintaining
maintaining anonymity
anonymity on
on a
a longterm
longterm basis
basis whether
whether they
they employed
employed confounding
confounding strategies
strategies to
actively deter
deter detection
detection how
how frustrated
frustrated they
they were
were by
by others
anonymity whether
whether their
their anonymous
anonymous status
status conferred
conferred a
a sense
sense of
freedom to
to behave
behave transgressively
transgressively the
the extent
extent to
to which
which their
their or
others personalities
personalities were
were identifiable
identifiable through
through language
appearance or
or gestures
gestures etc
what are
are some
some of
of the
the unexpected
disadvantages of
of anonymity
anonymity in
in this
this environment
environment apply
apply ethical
theories discussed
discussed in
in class
class in
in your
your analysis
assignment virtual
virtual environments
environments cheating
students play
play videogames
videogames with
with colleagues
colleagues cooperatively
cooperatively as
as a
member of
of a
a team
team and
and competitively
competitively in
in an
an individual
individual pvp
students on
on each
each team
team first
first must
must discuss
discuss and
and decide
as a
a group
group whether
whether their
their team
team will
will collectively
collectively condone
condone and
engage in
in cheating
cheating behaviors
behaviors in
in order
order to
to advance
advance their
their progress
and note
note the
the results
results generated
generated by
by their
their decision
decision whether
whether or
or not
not to
each team
team also
also must
must determine
determine whether
whether they
they have
identified evidence
evidence of
of cheating
cheating by
by their
their opponents
opponents and
and if
if so
so what
their response
response will
will be
be in
in return
as individual
individual players
players students
will be
be encouraged
encouraged to
to cheat
cheat in
in oneonone
oneonone interactions
interactions in
in order
order to
they must
must note
note their
their emotions
emotions as
as well
well as
as their
intellectual rationalizations
rationalizations when
when engaging
engaging in
in transgressive
is the
the game
game more
more or
or less
less enjoyable
enjoyable when
when both
both players
are known
known to
to be
be cheating
cheating apply
apply ethical
ethical theories
theories discussed
discussed in
class in
in your
your analysis
assignment information
information integrity
integrity critical
critical judgment
the purpose
purpose of
of assignment
assignment is
is to
to assess
assess the
the level
level of
of knowledge
knowledge of
the cryptography
cryptography section
section of
of this
this course
an exam
exam on
on the
the topic
topic will
be offered
the exam
exam key
key will
will be
be posted
posted on
on the
the ctools
ctools site
site in
advance of
of the
the students
students taking
taking the
the exam
however the
the key
key will
be posted
posted in
in an
an encrypted
encrypted form
the students
students will
will not
not be
be told
which encryption
encryption scheme
scheme was
was used
used for
for encoding
students will
have the
the choice
choice of
of studying
studying for
for the
the exam
exam in
in a
a traditional
traditional way
way or
putting their
their effort
effort towards
towards decrypting
decrypting the
the answer
answer key
key and
guaranteeing full
full credit
credit on
on the
the exam
assignment secrecy
secrecy and
and openness
openness role
role playing
homework is
is a
a roleplaying
roleplaying assignment
students are
are given
given a
a list
of artifacts
artifacts of
of varying
varying levels
levels of
of importance
importance to
to them
them personally
and to
to society
society in
in general
students will
will then
then be
be asked
individually or
or in
in groups
groups to
to prioritize
prioritize artifacts
artifacts in
in terms
terms of
importance and
and need
need for
for secrecy
the initial
initial evaluation
evaluation will
will be
from their
their current
current perspective
perspective as
as a
a um
um student
next students
will be
be randomly
randomly assigned
assigned a
a role
role for
for roleplay
students will
will again
be asked
asked to
to prioritize
prioritize artifacts
artifacts and
and reflect
reflect upon
upon any
any changes
changes in
their prioritization
prioritization scheme
the design
design and
and implementation
implementation of
of an
an innovative
innovative course
course on
on ethics
and information
information technology
technology is
is a
a somewhat
somewhat risky
risky undertaking
first we
we do
do not
not yet
yet know
know of
of the
the market
market for
for the
the concentration
concentration and
the extent
extent to
to which
which the
the new
new course
course will
will both
both attract
attract students
students to
to the
concentration and
and fulfill
fulfill critical
critical learning
learning objectives
objectives for
for the
the new
informatics program
second we
we cannot
cannot anticipate
anticipate the
the extent
extent to
which experiential
experiential teaching
teaching in
in the
the domain
domain of
of ethics
ethics and
information technology
technology will
will lead
lead to
to specific
specific learning
learning outcomes
toward this
this end
end the
the course
course instructors
instructors have
have partnered
partnered with
with the
universitys center
center for
for research
research on
on learning
learning and
and teaching
teaching to
develop assessment
assessment metrics
metrics new
new student
student feedback
feedback mechanisms
third we
we are
are not
not sure
sure that
that the
the course
course will
will or
or should
should result
result in
behavioral changes
changes in
in the
the students
students who
who complete
complete the
the course
believe the
the risk
risk of
of failure
failure measured
measured by
by either
either low
low enrollment
enrollment or
low student
student evaluations
evaluations is
is offset
offset by
by the
the opportunity
opportunity to
to create
create a
learning environment
environment that
that serves
serves as
as a
a model
model laboratory
laboratory for
for new
research on
on teaching
teaching ethics
ethics at
at the
the undergraduate
undergraduate level
the author
author offers
offers thanks
thanks to
to david
david chesney
chesney college
college of
engineering and
and marianne
marianne ryan
ryan school
school of
of information
university of
of michigan
michigan for
for collaborating
collaborating in
in the
the development
development of
the course
course described
described in
in this
this paper
at the
the university
university of
of michigan
the provosts
provosts multidisciplinary
multidisciplinary learning
learning and
and team
team teaching
initiative and
and the
the presidents
presidents ethics
ethics in
in public
public life
life initiative
provided generous
generous support
support for
for planning
planning and
and start
start up
up of
of the
the course
bynum t
ethical challenges
challenges to
to citizens
citizens of
of the
automatic age
age norbert
norbert weiner
weiner on
on the
the information
information society
journal of
of information
information communication
communication and
and ethics
ethics in
bynum t
flourishing ethics
ethics and
information technology
buchanan e
and ess
ess c
the ethics
ethics of
of egames
international review
review of
of information
information ethics
ethics december
capurro r
towards an
an ontological
ontological foundation
foundation of
information ethics
ethics and
and information
information technology
chesney t
an empirical
empirical examination
examination of
of wikipedias
first monday
monday november
duranti l
reliability and
and authenticity
authenticity the
the concepts
and their
their implications
archivaria p
floridi l
information ethics
ethics on
on the
the philosophical
foundations of
of computer
computer ethics
ethics and
and information
floridi l
on the
the intrinsic
intrinsic value
value of
of information
objects and
and the
the infosphere
ethics and
and information
floridi l
information ethics
ethics its
its nature
nature and
and scope
scope in
moral philosophy
philosophy and
and information
information technology
technology j
van den
hoven and
and j
weckert eds
cambridge university
university press
gibbons s
the academic
academic library
library and
and the
the net
net gen
student making
making the
the connections
chicago amer
himma k
foundational issues
issues in
in information
library hi
hi tech
hutchings p
ethics of
of inquiry
inquiry issues
issues in
in the
scholarship of
of teaching
teaching and
and learning
menlo park
park carnegie
international center
center for
for information
information ethics
introna l
phenomenological approaches
approaches to
to ethics
ethics and
information technology
stanford encyclopedia
encyclopedia of
lippincott j
net generation
generation students
students and
and libraries
educating the
the net
net generation
boulder educause
mcrobb s
jefferies p
stahl b
exploring the
relationship between
between pedagogy
pedagogy ethics
ethics and
and technology
building a
a framework
framework for
for strategy
strategy development
pedagogy education
mitchell w
the reconfigured
reconfigured eye
eye visual
visual truth
truth in
the postphotographic
postphotographic era
cambridge mit
mit press
press p
moor j
what is
is computer
computer ethics
ethics in
in t
computers and
and ethics
basil blackwell
blackwell pp
moor j
why we
we need
need better
better ethics
ethics for
for emerging
ethics and
and information
information technology
nye d
check pub
pub date
technology matters
questions to
to live
live with
cambridge mit
mit press
strauss w
and howe
howe n
millennials and
and the
the pop
great falls
falls va
va life
life course
course assoc
university of
of michigan
michigan ethics
ethics in
in public
public life
life initiative
ethics and
and social
social justice
justice in
in undergraduate
undergraduate informatics
lynette kvasny
pennsylvania state
state university
c ist
ist building
university park
park pa
this paper
paper examines
examines social
social justice
justice as
as a
a praxis
praxis oriented
oriented approach
for infusing
infusing ethics
ethics and
and multiculturalism
multiculturalism in
in undergraduate
informatics education
social justice
justice education
education includes
includes an
interdisciplinary study
study of
of information
information and
and communication
technologies ict
ict that
that analyzes
analyzes unequal
unequal power
power relations
relations that
exist in
in society
society and
and a
a set
set of
of interactive
interactive experiential
experiential pedagogical
principles that
that help
help students
students understand
understand the
the meaning
meaning of
of social
difference in
in their
their personal
personal lives
lives in
in their
their professional
professional lives
lives and
and in
their civic
civic lives
the paper
paper summarizes
summarizes the
the theoretical
theoretical basis
basis of
social justice
justice and
and its
its relationship
relationship to
to ethics
ethics multiculturalism
multiculturalism and
the paper
paper also
also presents
presents a
a pedagogical
pedagogical approach
approach used
used in
in the
design and
and implement
implement of
of an
an existing
existing undergraduate
undergraduate informatics
social justice
justice education
education has
has the
the potential
potential to
to prepare
students who
who are
are able
able to
to critically
critically evaluate
evaluate the
the intended
intended and
unintended consequences
consequences of
of ict
ict adoption
adoption and
and use
sophisticated in
in their
their understanding
understanding of
of social
social institutions
institutions in
shaping the
the meaning
meaning and
and intended
intended uses
uses of
of ict
ict and
and able
able to
work with
with diverse
diverse others
information policy
policy ethics
ethics and
and law
undergraduate education
education ethics
ethics social
social justice
justice pedagogy
icts provide
provide new
new and
and exciting
exciting ways
ways for
for people
people to
to work
coordinate schedules
schedules share
share information
information maintain
maintain relationships
and seek
seek entertainment
in this
this paper
paper the
the information
information and
and the
technologies that
that are
are employed
employed by
by humans
humans to
to create
create organize
transfer and
and utilize
utilize that
that information
information in
in a
a networked
networked environment
are collectively
collectively known
known as
as the
the information
information environment
information environment
environment is
is changing
changing the
the ways
ways in
in which
which we
copyright and
and disclaimer
disclaimer information
interact communicate
communicate and
and function
function on
on the
the job
job and
and in
in our
our daily
emerging technologies
technologies also
also raise
raise new
new economic
economic cultural
legal ethical
ethical and
and social
social issues
issues that
that are
are of
of grave
grave importance
importance to
the college
college of
of information
information sciences
sciences and
and technology
technology ist
ist at
at the
pennsylvania state
state university
university offers
offers an
an existing
existing course
course ist
the information
information environment
environment which
which surveys
surveys these
these diverse
diverse issues
this course
course examines
examines how
how and
and why
why the
the evolving
evolving information
environment influences
influences the
the design
design development
development and
and use
use of
of ict
this course
course also
also examines
examines the
the social
social impacts
impacts of
of ict
ict on
on people
organizations and
and societies
the information
information environment
environment is
is a
a messy
the issues
issues are
are not
clearly identified
identified there
there are
are competing
competing interests
interests and
and solutions
solutions are
extremely difficult
difficult to
to develop
develop because
because there
there is
is no
no one
one best
answer to
to the
the problem
to assist
assist students
students in
in developing
developing the
the skills
necessary for
for coping
coping with
with this
this situation
situation the
the course
course employs
employs a
social justice
justice approach
approach to
to education
the subject
subject matter
matter of
of the
course is
is learned
learned through
through a
a series
series of
of problems
problems that
that enable
enable students
to learn
learn about
about the
the layers
layers of
of the
the information
information environment
environment and
and the
factors embedded
embedded in
in them
the learning
learning format
format emphasizes
emphasizes a
studentcentered classroom
classroom activities
activities and
and teambased
teambased projects
projects that
feature participation
participation inclusiveness
inclusiveness affirmation
affirmation of
of human
human agency
social responsibility
responsibility and
and collaborative
collaborative work
work in
in small
small groups
through individual
individual and
and group
group learning
learning activities
activities students
students and
and the
educator examine
examine the
the influence
influence of
of environmental
environmental factors
factors on
on ict
and the
the impact
impact of
of ict
ict on
on the
the environment
this paper
summarizes the
the primary
primary theoretical
theoretical and
and pedagogical
pedagogical features
features of
this course
course and
and the
the broader
broader implications
implications of
of social
social justice
pedagogies for
for educators
theoretical foundations
according to
to adams
adams bell
bell and
and giffin
giffin social
social justice
justice education
seeks the
the full
full and
and equal
equal participation
participation of
of all
all groups
groups in
in a
a society
this is
is a
a vision
vision of
of society
society in
in which
which diverse
diverse social
social groups
groups mutually
shaped ict
ict to
to meet
meet their
their needs
in such
such a
a society
society individuals
individuals are
both selfdetermining
selfdetermining able
able to
to develop
develop their
their full
full capabilities
capabilities and
interdependent capable
capable of
of interacting
interacting democratically
democratically with
students should
should have
have both
both a
a sense
sense of
of social
social responsibility
as well
well as
as a
a sense
sense of
of their
their own
own agency
agency to
to speak
speak and
and act
act in
in a
manner that
that supports
supports their
their beliefs
social justice
justice education
education is
is also
also praxis
praxis oriented
praxis posits
that theory
theory and
and practice
practice are
are interwoven
interwoven with
with practice
practice being
shaped by
by informal
informal and
and formal
formal tacit
tacit and
and explicit
explicit theories
the way
way that
that we
we identify
identify and
and articulate
articulate problems
problems that
that exist
exist in
in the
information environment
environment the
the solutions
solutions that
that we
we entertain
entertain as
as viable
and the
the methods
methods that
that we
we choose
choose as
as appropriate
appropriate for
for realizing
realizing those
solutions are
are all
all theoretical
theoretical as
as well
well as
as practical
practical questions
consequently theory
theory serves
serves three
three important
important functions
theory enables
enables us
us to
to reflect
reflect critically
critically upon
upon our
our intentions
decisionmaking and
and the
the means
means we
we use
use to
to actualize
actualize our
our choices
choices in
the design
design of
of ict
computerized information
information systems
systems for
instance are
are generally
generally designed
designed for
for some
some idealized
idealized audience
ethical problems
problems surface
surface when
when users
users with
with different
different knowledge
requirements attempt
attempt to
to use
use the
the system
hoesle notes
notes that
computerized information
information system
system use
use requires
requires people
people to
to act
act and
think in
in prescribed
prescribed ways
ways that
that privilege
privilege western
western cultural
cultural traditions
while marginalizing
marginalizing the
the cultural
cultural traditions
traditions of
of others
cultures have
have unique
unique forms
forms of
of knowledge
knowledge embodied
embodied in
in cultural
artifacts such
such as
as mythologies
mythologies storytelling
storytelling proverbs
proverbs art
art and
while these
these forms
forms of
of knowledge
knowledge are
are legitimate
legitimate and
and deserve
to be
be preserved
preserved hoesle
hoesle posits
posits that
that they
they cannot
cannot be
be equally
wellrepresented through
through computerized
computerized ways
ways of
of storing
representing and
and transmitting
transmitting knowledge
in the
the years
years since
hoesle authored
authored this
this manuscript
manuscript ict
ict has
has advanced
advanced significantly
with web
technologies relatively
relatively low
low skilled
skilled users
users can
author content
content in
in a
a variety
variety of
of social
social media
media formats
formats such
such as
as video
podcasts wikis
wikis and
and blogs
with these
these diverse
diverse formats
formats users
users now
have more
more options
options for
for representing
representing their
their unique
unique worldview
worldview and
hoesles concern
concern may
may be
be less
less salient
the challenge
challenge may
may be
be less
less a
problem of
of inadequacies
inadequacies in
in computerized
computerized representations
representations of
knowledge and
and more
more a
a problem
problem of
of providing
providing access
access to
to the
the tools
and competencies
competencies that
that make
make self
self authoring
authoring possible
open source
applications provide
provide lower
lower cost
cost technology
technology solutions
solutions to
organizations and
and individuals
individuals seeking
seeking alternatives
alternatives to
to proprietary
information systems
both web
and open
open source
source are
are based
based on
communityoriented design
design intentions
intentions and
and choices
choices and
and expand
the usage
usage options
options for
for nontraditional
nontraditional users
users of
of ict
second theory
theory has
has the
the potential
potential to
to help
help us
us stay
stay conscious
conscious of
of our
position as
as historical
historical subjects
ethical implications
implications arise
arise from
these historically
historically situated
situated power
power relations
for instance
instance ict
ict is
often seen
seen as
as an
an essential
essential component
component of
of development
development and
democratic practices
this viewpoint
viewpoint is
is expressed
expressed in
in the
the context
of developing
developing countries
countries and
and historically
historically underserved
underserved groups
groups in
in the
developed world
these groups
groups are
are seen
seen as
as excluded
excluded from
from the
information society
society and
and consequently
consequently should
should apply
apply ict
ict or
or risk
being left
left behind
this line
line of
of reasoning
reasoning not
not only
only supports
supports the
technology imperative
imperative but
but also
also subscribes
subscribes to
to a
a development
ideology that
that is
is based
based on
on a
a concept
concept of
of history
history as
as linear
linear and
all societies
societies and
and people
people go
go through
through the
the same
same stages
until they
they reach
reach the
the same
same economic
economic levels
levels as
as countries
countries and
and people
considered developed
the assumption
assumption is
is that
that ict
ict is
is neutral
and nondiscriminatory
nondiscriminatory in
in that
that it
it potentially
potentially provides
provides equal
opportunities to
to everyone
everyone equal
equal access
access to
to ict
ict ensures
ensures equal
however this
this ignores
ignores historical
historical power
power relations
relations such
such as
colonialism racism
racism and
and sexism
sexism to
to which
which ict
ict is
is inextricably
the perception
perception that
that icts
icts are
are necessary
necessary for
for development
also ignores
ignores that
that technology
technology invents
invents its
its own
own needs
needs such
such as
software and
and hardware
hardware upgrades
upgrades and
and training
training as
as well
well as
problems such
such as
as the
the environmental
environmental degradation
degradation that
that results
results from
a western
western lifestyle
ecologically it
it is
is impossible
impossible for
for the
the whole
world to
to adopt
adopt a
a western
western lifestyle
yet a
a western
western lifestyle
lifestyle is
offered as
as the
the standard
standard for
for development
third and
and perhaps
perhaps most
most importantly
importantly theory
theory provides
provides a
framework for
for interrogating
interrogating our
our practices
practices and
and creating
creating novel
approaches to
to addressing
addressing issues
issues in
in the
the information
information environment
many of
of these
these issues
issues such
such as
as social
social and
and digital
digital exclusion
privacy and
and community
community and
and democracy
have strong
strong ethical
ethical and
and multicultural
multicultural implications
instance the
the digital
digital divide
divide is
is at
at least
least as
as much
much about
about cultural
differences as
as it
it may
may be
be about
about disparities
disparities in
in income
income and
because the
the internet
internet enables
enables users
users to
to focus
focus solely
on receiving
receiving information
information from
from and
and communicating
communicating with
with likeminded
likeminded individuals
individuals paterson
paterson worries
worries that
that the
the internet
internet may
foster fragmented
fragmented existences
existences that
that exacerbate
exacerbate existing
existing social
differences based
based on
on ethnicity
ethnicity gender
gender geography
geography age
age and
and race
the central
central implication
implication underlying
underlying these
these issues
issues of
of ethics
ethics and
multiculturalism is
is how
how diverse
diverse people
people in
in different
different parts
parts of
of the
world experience
experience the
the effects
effects of
of the
the computerization
for some
some the
challenge is
is to
to continuously
continuously innovate
innovate and
and create
create new
technologies others
others grapple
grapple to
to keep
keep up
up with
with the
the continuous
changes enabled
enabled by
by ict
ict and
and still
still others
others struggle
struggle to
to put
put in
in place
the basic
basic infrastructure
infrastructure that
that may
may allow
allow them
them to
to participate
participate in
in the
global knowledgebased
knowledgebased society
praxis forces
forces us
us to
to examine
examine how
how power
power operates
operates through
normalizing discourses
discourses about
about ict
ict and
and power
power relations
reminds us
us to
to continually
continually ask
ask in
in whose
whose interest
interest prevailing
systems operate
the question
question of
of who
who is
is served
served by
by ict
provides a
a useful
useful analytic
analytic tool
tool for
for exposing
exposing hierarchical
relationships as
as well
well as
as the
the hidden
hidden advantages
advantages and
and penalties
embedded in
in technologies
technologies that
that are
are purportedly
purportedly neutral
commitment to
to social
social justice
justice requires
requires an
an ethical
ethical attitude
attitude towards
inclusion of
of diverse
diverse cultures
cultures and
and the
the potential
potential of
of ict
ict to
to improve
the capacity
capacity of
of human
human agents
agents to
to transform
transform their
their world
course design
the social
social justice
justice approach
approach evolved
evolved over
over five
five years
years of
of teaching
and continuously
continuously improving
improving the
the information
information environment
environment course
the context
context in
in which
which the
the course
course is
is situated
situated as
as well
well as
as the
pedagogical mechanisms
mechanisms that
that were
were used
used in
in the
the evolution
evolution of
of the
course are
are presented
the college
college of
of ist
ist prepares
prepares undergraduate
undergraduate students
students to
to confront
and manage
manage the
the complex
complex interactions
interactions among
among technology
technology people
and information
students are
are broadly
broadly trained
trained in
in the
the areas
areas of
software engineering
engineering and
and networking
networking user
user interface
interface design
information systems
systems development
development humancomputer
humancomputer interaction
and social
social informatics
our curriculum
curriculum integrates
integrates these
these areas
through problembased
problembased learning
learning often
often with
with industrybased
students emerge
emerge from
from our
our program
program with
with a
a systems
view of
of ict
ict experience
experience working
working in
in teams
teams on
on unstructured
problems and
and an
an understanding
understanding of
of the
the contextual
contextual factors
factors from
the technology
technology itself
itself to
to cognition
cognition ethics
ethics economics
economics and
and policy
that shape
shape the
the design
design adoption
adoption and
and use
use of
of ict
in over
of our
our graduates
graduates were
were placed
placed in
in technologyoriented
technologyoriented career
positions in
in diverse
diverse industries
industries such
such as
as consulting
consulting banking
manufacturing healthcare
healthcare and
and government
given the
the industry
industry orientation
orientation of
of the
the ist
ist curriculum
curriculum and
and my
professional experience
experience and
and graduate
graduate education
education in
in information
systems at
at an
an american
american business
business school
school the
the initial
initial design
design of
of the
course focused
focused primarily
primarily on
on professional
professional ethics
using the
the acm
and ieee
ieee codes
codes of
of professional
professional ethics
ethics as
as a
a basis
basis students
students were
grouped in
in teams
teams and
and presented
presented with
with fictitious
fictitious scenarios
scenarios that
portrayed ethical
ethical dilemmas
dilemmas that
that they
they may
may face
face in
in their
their careers
the scenarios
scenarios included
included breaches
breaches in
in the
the confidentiality
confidentiality of
information programmers
programmers and
and analysts
analysts obligation
obligation to
to act
act in
in a
socially responsible
responsible manner
manner use
use of
of company
company computers
computers for
personal benefit
benefit ownership
ownership of
of intellectual
intellectual property
property and
electronic monitoring
monitoring of
of workers
while the
the scenarios
scenarios generated
good discussion
discussion students
students didnt
didnt seem
seem to
to internalize
internalize the
the material
a second
second approach
approach was
was to
to replace
replace the
the fictitious
fictitious scenarios
scenarios with
realworld cases
cases from
from the
the popular
popular press
student teams
teams were
asked to
to evaluate
evaluate and
and debate
debate the
the behaviors
behaviors of
of the
the various
stakeholders presented
presented in
in the
the cases
again most
most students
students failed
failed to
personalize the
the ethical
ethical issues
to obtain
obtain insights
insights as
as to
to how
how i
i could
could improve
improve the
the course
course i
instituted a
a student
student quality
quality team
in our
our college
college student
student quality
teams assess
assess the
the classroom
classroom learning
learning environment
environment and
and provide
educators with
with feedback
feedback to
to help
help them
them improve
improve course
course design
student quality
quality team
team program
program is
is studentorganized
studentorganized and
and managed
team leaders
leaders are
are trained
trained in
in quality
quality principles
principles team
team management
survey design
design and
and diplomacy
they also
also receive
receive nominal
nominal salaries
team members
members are
are recruited
recruited from
from students
students enrolled
enrolled in
in the
the course
and they
they receive
receive one
one credit
credit of
of independent
independent study
study for
for their
their effort
students noted
noted that
that the
the scenarios
scenarios seemed
seemed abstract
abstract and
and removed
from their
their daily
daily lived
lived experiences
they had
had little
little formal
experience working
working in
in a
a business
business organization
they had
had yet
yet to
to develop
develop a
a strong
strong professional
professional identity
because ethics
ethics was
was isolated
isolated in
in a
a course
course module
module and
and presented
solely as
as a
a professional
professional concern
concern the
the importance
importance of
of ethical
considerations was
was minimized
while considering
considering the
the student
student feedback
feedback i
i attended
attended the
multicultural teaching
teaching academy
academy at
at the
the schreyer
schreyer institute
institute for
teaching excellence
excellence at
at the
the pennsylvania
pennsylvania state
state university
justice was
was presented
presented as
as an
an approach
approach for
for infusing
infusing multiculturalism
and ethics
ethics in
in undergraduate
undergraduate education
social justice
justice also
also fit
fit with
my research
research interests
interests in
in ict
ict and
and social
social exclusion
exclusion and
and personal
commitment to
to improving
improving the
the recruitment
recruitment retention
retention and
and academic
excellence for
for women
women students
students of
of color
color and
and international
international students
who are
are severely
severely underrepresented
underrepresented in
in our
our program
hence social
justice formed
formed the
the basis
basis for
for the
the third
third iteration
pedagogical approach
a pedagogy
pedagogy respectful
respectful of
of social
social justice
justice and
and human
human diversity
begins with
with the
the educators
educators sense
sense of
of social
social responsibility
education is
is fundamentally
fundamentally ethical
ethical and
and political
political in
in nature
and politics
politics are
are inherent
inherent in
in the
the teacherstudent
teacherstudent relationship
relationship in
in the
physical conditions
conditions of
of the
the classroom
classroom in
in the
the grading
grading and
and in
in the
readings and
and course
course content
content that
that are
are chosen
chosen or
or excluded
excluded from
from the
to achieve
achieve a
a democratic
democratic learning
learning environment
environment that
that is
is inclusive
and meaningful
meaningful to
to students
students the
the first
first day
day of
of class
class begins
begins with
with the
educator presenting
presenting an
an overview
overview of
of the
the course
course and
and the
the key
learning objectives
these learning
learning objectives
objectives include
identify major
major themes
themes in
in information
information policy
policy studies
studies e
ethics privacy
privacy workplace
workplace monitoring
monitoring security
security and
and relate
these themes
themes to
to the
the applications
applications of
of icts
use conceptual
conceptual frameworks
frameworks to
to frame
frame analysis
analysis of
of icts
icts in
in their
context of
of use
use at
at varying
varying levels
levels of
of analysis
analysis e
organizational societal
societal global
global reflected
reflected in
in the
the information
analyze the
the impacts
impacts of
of information
information systems
systems and
and technology
and make
make appropriate
appropriate policy
policy recommendations
students are
are then
then broken
broken into
into teams
teams and
and asked
asked to
to identity
identity three
important topics
topics that
that they
they would
would like
like to
to explore
the class
class then
organizes the
the topics
topics into
into themes
themes that
that are
are then
then incorporated
incorporated into
the syllabus
table provides
provides an
an example
example of
of topics
topics that
that were
explored during
during the
the spring
spring semester
theories of
of technology
and social
social change
technology and
sample topics
technology determinism
determinism social
determinism social
social informatics
sign value
value use
use value
value media
consolidation consumption
technology fetish
fetish identity
identity data
warehousing personalization
technology and
and the
the body
reproductive technologies
genetic testing
testing cloning
technology and
social media
media digital
digital divide
online gaming
gaming communities
community wifi
technology and
and deviant
cyberstalking identity
identity theft
social behavior
sexual predators
predators virtual
virtual rape
technology and
and work
electronic monitoring
monitoring global
workforce deskilling
table learning
learning module
in addition
addition to
to inclusiveness
inclusiveness the
the educator
educator seeks
seeks to
to leverage
leverage the
cultural diversity
diversity that
that exists
exists in
in the
the classroom
being socialized
and living
living in
in the
the dominant
dominant culture
culture often
often lessens
lessens our
our awareness
that our
our beliefs
beliefs and
and behaviors
behaviors reflect
reflect a
a particular
particular racial
racial ethnic
ethnic or
gender affiliation
according to
to wlodkowski
wlodkowski and
and ginsberg
white males
males have
have a
a more
more difficult
difficult time
time acknowledging
acknowledging the
the idea
that angloamericans
angloamericans and
and western
western norms
norms enjoy
enjoy a
a privileged
position in
in the
the united
united states
states educational
educational system
culture is
taught and
and understood
understood implicitly
implicitly which
which is
is why
why it
it is
is difficult
difficult to
explicitly describe
describe who
who we
we are
are culturally
consequently we
we are
more likely
likely to
to experience
experience uniqueness
uniqueness of
of our
our own
own culture
culture when
when we
are in
in the
the presence
presence of
of those
those who
who are
are different
different from
from ourselves
since on
on average
average of
of the
the students
students enrolled
enrolled in
in the
the course
course are
white males
males the
the challenge
challenge is
is to
to exploit
exploit the
the cultural
cultural diversity
diversity that
exists within
within this
this group
for example
example students
students vary
vary in
in their
their political
political affiliation
the social
media learning
learning activity
activity exploits
exploits this
this difference
difference by
by asking
asking students
to compare
compare and
and contrast
contrast the
the use
use of
of you
you tube
tube facebook
facebook and
and other
social media
media applications
applications by
by presidential
presidential candidates
to help
students understand
understand how
how gender
gender mediates
mediates social
social interactions
interactions male
students create
create female
female avatars
avatars and
and interact
interact with
with others
others in
in a
a virtual
they then
then report
report on
on their
their experiences
in the
the assignment
on digital
digital divide
divide and
and internet
internet indispensability
indispensability students
students keep
journals on
on their
their internet
internet use
use for
for a
a hour
hour period
they then
reflect on
on the
the benefits
benefits of
of their
their use
use as
as well
well as
as the
the losses
losses they
they may
have suffered
suffered if
if they
they lacked
lacked internet
internet access
after they
they complete
this assignment
assignment i
i ask
ask students
students to
to collect
collect statistics
statistics about
about ict
diffusion and
and other
other ereadiness
ereadiness indicators
indicators for
for a
a developing
country of
of their
their choice
choice and
and compare
compare these
these to
to comparable
indicators for
for the
the us
students are
are often
often astounded
astounded by
by the
disparities that
that they
they uncover
uncover and
and in
in some
some cases
cases express
express a
a deeper
appreciation for
for the
the privileges
privileges that
that they
they derive
derive from
from internet
a few
few students
students are
are highly
highly motivated
motivated by
by this
this exercise
exercise and
extend this
this work
work for
for their
their semester
semester long
long research
research project
students conduct
conduct an
an experiment
experiment in
in which
which they
they give
give up
up their
their cell
phones on
on for
for a
a weekend
weekend and
and reflect
reflect on
on this
this experience
experience as
as a
means of
of experiencing
experiencing life
life as
as a
a have
have not
students consistently
note extreme
extreme difficulty
difficulty in
in coordinating
coordinating schedules
schedules with
with friends
missing important
important phone
phone calls
calls from
from employers
employers the
the loss
loss of
of social
status that
that comes
comes from
from cell
cell phone
phone ownership
ownership and
and the
the loss
loss of
social connectedness
connectedness that
that results
results from
from the
the inability
inability to
communicate with
with friends
friends anytime
anytime anywhere
one student
recounted how
how he
he often
often provides
provides technical
technical support
support to
to his
his friends
during the
the weekend
weekend when
when he
he turned
turned off
off his
his mobile
mobile phone
phone he
missing a
a late
late night
night call
call from
from a
a frantic
frantic friend
friend who
who experienced
experienced a
computer problem
problem while
while writing
writing up
up a
a term
term paper
paper that
that was
was due
due the
following morning
as a
a result
result the
the student
student was
was faced
faced with
with the
tough task
task of
of repairing
repairing his
his relationship
relationship with
with his
his friend
there are
are a
a number
number of
of procedures
procedures used
used for
for classwork
classwork and
peer teaching
teaching is
is used
used in
in nearly
nearly every
every class
sign up
up to
to deliver
deliver individual
individual presentations
presentations that
that correspond
correspond to
to the
topics that
that will
will be
be discussed
discussed during
during the
the semester
in these
presentations students
students find
find current
current news
news articles
articles interesting
websites youtube
youtube videos
videos or
or other
other media
media related
related to
to the
the topic
topic that
they chose
each presentation
presentation ends
ends with
with a
a class
class discussion
discussion in
response to
to two
two probing
probing questions
questions developed
developed by
by the
the presenter
through this
this exercise
exercise each
each student
student acts
acts as
as a
a teacher
teacher for
for the
the group
additional procedures
procedures include
include group
group writing
writing using
using wikis
journaling using
using blogs
blogs small
small research
research projects
projects such
such as
as examining
privacy and
and identity
identity using
using facebook
facebook profiles
profiles deconstructing
advertisements for
for technologyrelated
technologyrelated products
products and
and using
discussion forums
forums to
to generate
generate insights
insights about
about characteristics
characteristics of
members of
of online
online gaming
gaming communities
teambased research
projects are
are the
the main
main way
way for
for students
students to
to demonstrate
demonstrate indepth
learning experience
experience with
with humans
humans and
and icts
through these
procedures students
students are
are engaged
engaged in
in critical
critical questioning
questioning problem
posing and
and research
research that
that enable
enable them
them to
to utilize
utilize their
their strengths
experiences and
and values
values to
to deepen
deepen understanding
understanding of
of social
political cultural
cultural and
and ethical
ethical issues
issues that
that exist
exist in
in the
the information
implications for
for educators
the social
social justice
justice approach
approach has
has several
several implications
implications for
for educators
first educators
educators have
have to
to address
address two
two sources
sources of
of power
power asymmetry
in the
the classroom
classroom the
the educators
educators institutional
institutional power
power status
and authority
authority and
and the
the educators
educators social
social status
status characteristics
such as
as race
race gender
gender age
age and
and nationality
as an
an africanamerican
woman teaching
teaching undergraduate
undergraduate courses
courses to
to a
a predominantly
predominantly white
male student
student population
population there
there are
are clearly
clearly many
many ways
ways in
in which
which the
educator and
and students
students are
are not
not alike
the challenge
challenge is
is to
to foster
foster a
classroom environment
environment in
in which
which the
the educators
educators authority
authority and
expertise is
is clarified
clarified and
and made
made explicit
explicit because
because it
it bears
bears on
grading evaluation
evaluation and
and classroom
classroom norms
omolade argues
that authority
authority with
with not
not authority
authority over
over is
is complicated
complicated by
by social
status differences
differences between
between the
the students
students and
and the
the educator
educators of
of color
color must
must maintain
maintain democratic
democratic structures
structures to
to foster
authority with
with students
once this
this mutual
mutual respect
respect is
is established
students will
will accept
accept greater
greater responsibility
responsibility for
for establishing
establishing an
active and
and engaged
engaged learning
learning environment
second the
the instructor
instructor must
must create
create a
a safe
safe environment
environment that
encourages discussion
silence in
in the
the classroom
classroom can
can result
result from
from a
number of
of factors
factors including
including fear
fear of
of being
being patronized
patronized anger
anxiety hostility
hostility ignorance
ignorance or
or resistance
resistance to
to being
being forced
forced to
for hooks
hooks silence
silence is
is not
not always
always about
about the
the failure
failure to
make an
an utterance
sometimes silence
silence is
is the
the fear
fear of
of being
being unable
to make
make a
a speech
speech that
that compels
compels others
others to
to listen
silence can
can be
be the
fear of
of not
not being
being heard
educators can
can use
use their
their classroom
authority to
to create
create a
a safe
safe classroom
classroom environment
environment that
that compels
students to
to value
value their
their own
own voice
voice by
by establishing
establishing classroom
classroom norms
to ensure
ensure respect
respect and
and the
the amicable
amicable resolution
resolution of
of conflicts
technologies such
such as
as message
message boards
boards where
where students
students can
can post
comments and
and pointers
pointers to
to relevant
relevant information
information provide
provide another
means by
by which
which students
students can
can participate
participate in
in the
the course
finally educators
educators must
must enable
enable students
students to
to understand
understand that
that the
power relations
relations that
that exist
exist in
in society
society are
are not
not the
the natural
natural order
order of
the privileges
privileges that
that we
we enjoy
enjoy in
in life
life are
are the
the result
result of
historically constructed
constructed forces
forces which
which can
can be
be changed
as future
information technology
technology professionals
professionals students
students can
can use
use the
political influence
influence resources
resources and
and human
human agency
agency to
to create
create and
implement icts
icts that
that are
are socially
socially just
just environmentally
environmentally benign
and enable
enable positive
positive social
social change
social justice
justice provides
provides a
a useful
useful approach
approach for
for infusing
infusing ethics
ethics and
multiculturalism in
in undergraduate
undergraduate informatics
informatics education
a social
justice pedagogy
pedagogy for
for the
the study
study of
of ict
ict and
and its
its social
social implications
would necessarily
necessarily include
include teaching
teaching that
that pays
pays attention
attention to
to personal
safety and
and classroom
classroom norms
norms begins
begins from
from students
students worldview
and uses
uses students
students experiences
experiences as
as a
a basis
basis for
for course
course content
content and
this studentcentered
studentcentered approach
approach is
is vastly
different than
than the
the traditional
traditional lecturediscussiontesting
lecturediscussiontesting mode
mode of
higher education
education that
that has
has existed
existed for
for centuries
centuries and
and requires
requires a
a shift
in the
the power
power relations
relations between
between students
students and
and educators
seeking to
to adopt
adopt a
a social
social justice
justice approach
approach may
may do
do so
so in
incremental steps
steps by
by experimenting
experimenting with
with different
different assignments
and classroom
classroom activities
activities and
and by
by fostering
fostering a
a classroom
classroom atmosphere
that invites
invites everyone
everyone to
to speak
speak from
from their
their own
own voice
voice of
of experience
take risks
risks and
and learn
learn from
from their
their mistakes
social justice
justice education
has the
the potential
potential to
to prepare
prepare students
students who
who are
are able
able to
to critically
evaluate the
the intended
intended and
and unintended
unintended consequences
consequences of
of ict
adoption and
and use
use sophisticated
sophisticated in
in their
their understanding
understanding of
social institutions
institutions in
in shaping
shaping the
the meaning
meaning and
and intended
intended uses
uses of
ict and
and able
able to
to work
work with
with diverse
diverse others
adams m
bell l
and giffin
giffin p
teaching for
diversity and
and social
social justice
justice a
a sourcebook
routledge ny
friere p
pedagogy of
of the
the oppressed
seabury ny
hoesle v
the third
third world
world as
as a
a philosophical
philosophical problem
social research
paterson b
we cannot
cannot eat
eat data
data the
the need
need for
computer ethics
ethics to
to address
address the
the cultural
cultural and
and ecological
impacts of
of computing
in information
information technology
technology ethics
cultural perspectives
perspectives hongladadrom
hongladadrom s
and ess
ess c
idea group
group reference
reference hershey
hershey pa
mbarika v
payton f
kvasny l
and amadi
amadi a
education and
and workforce
workforce participation
participation a
a new
new era
era for
for women
in kenya
kenya the
the information
information society
hacker k
and mason
mason s
ethical gaps
gaps in
in studies
studies of
the digital
digital divide
ethics and
and information
information technology
johnson d
is the
the global
global information
information infrastructure
infrastructure a
democratic technology
technology acm
acm computers
computers and
and society
kvasny l
let the
the sisters
sisters speak
speak understanding
information technology
technology from
from the
the standpoint
standpoint of
of the
the other
the data
data base
base for
for advances
advances in
in information
information systems
winner l
cyberlibertarian myths
myths and
and the
the prospect
prospect for
acm computers
computers and
and society
tavani h
ethical reflection
reflection on
on the
the digital
digital divide
journal of
of information
information communication
communication and
and ethics
ethics in
wlodkowski r
and ginsberg
ginsberg m
diversity and
motivation culturally
culturally responsive
responsive teaching
teaching josseybass
punlishers san
san francisco
francisco ca
ess c
lost in
in translation
translation intercultural
intercultural dialogues
dialogues on
privacy and
and information
information ethics
ethics and
and information
omolade b
a black
black feminist
feminist pedagogy
studies quarterly
westin a
social and
and political
political dimensions
dimensions of
of privacy
journal of
of social
social issues
capuroor r
privacy an
an intercultural
intercultural perspective
ethics and
and information
information technology
giroux h
border crossings
crossings cultural
cultural workers
workers and
the politics
politics of
of education
routledge and
and kegan
kegan paul
paul ny
hooks b
teaching to
to transgress
transgress education
education as
as the
practice of
of freedom
routlege ny
