An Exploration of the Use of Games in Virtual Worlds for Online
Education

Authors: Martha García-Murillo and Ian MacInnes

Abstract

Advances in computing and telecommunications make it possible to take
advantage of immersive electronic environments to deliver content. In
this paper we present a policy game to be used in a virtual world. The
benefits of this tool are examined using Gee’s learning principles.
From this analysis we find that games in virtual worlds enable
reflective exploration that helps participants to learn from their
mistakes. Learning takes place from the content conveyed through the
game and through the multimedia immersion that allows students to learn
the nuances of these virtual contexts. Because there are no real world
consequences, participants can take risks, provide or receive help from
other students and, most importantly, apply this knowledge to a real
world situation. Recommendations are provided to educators to help them
exploit the great potential of games while being prepared for the
obstacles that they will face.

Introduction 

The purpose of this paper is to explore whether virtual worlds can
provide a setting for a rewarding learning experience for college
students. While online college education is a fairly common practice
today, most distance interactions with students rely on relatively
mature technologies such as course management systems (e.g., WebCT;
Blackboard), message boards, electronic mail and weblogs (‘blogs’).
These applications have facilitated the asynchronous interaction of
individuals located in various places and time zones. However,
information and communication technologies have advanced considerably,
and college professors now have the opportunity to experiment with more
innovative software applications that could make online interactions
more engaging and stimulating. Virtual worlds represent one such
application. In this paper we explore the pedagogical benefits of
virtual worlds, which we describe here as graphically immersive,
persistent, shared and typically avatar-based digital environments. We
believe at the outset that virtual worlds offer instructors a
potentially powerful tool for student learning and interaction through
simulated experience. 

The paper is divided in five main sections. The first section presents
evidence from academic research of the potential benefits that virtual
worlds can offer to distance students. Here we focus on video games and
virtual worlds and the educational benefits that they can provide. The
section also identifies the differences between virtual worlds and video
games. The second section describes a lobbying game that was adapted
from a traditional classroom to a virtual world environment. This was
done because of the increasing popularity of online classes at
university campuses. There is thus a need to find online activities that
maintain the interest of students. Here we describe the simulation and
the process that we followed to select a virtual world that could work
with this simulation. The third section of the paper analyzes the
educational value of the lobbying game within the virtual world. To do
this we used Gee’s learning principles and determined if virtual
worlds offer those benefits. The fourth section presents some of the
challenges to educators of the process of developing games for virtual
worlds. The fifth and last major section prior to the conclusions talks
about future trends of virtual worlds in educational settings.

Video and Computer Games as Pedagogical Tools

Work, leisure and education have all been affected by advances in
information and communication technologies. Technologies for
entertainment purposes can be so captivating now that traditional
classroom and electronic education programs sometimes pale in
comparison. The video and computer game industry, in particular, has
evolved radically over the past decade to offer interactive capabilities
that were only imagined twenty years ago. The cutting-edge animation,
opportunities for interaction, and dynamically generated narratives that
can be found in today’s games have attracted large, diverse audiences,
and many American teenagers and young adults play these computer games
on a routine basis   ADDIN EN.CITE
<EndNote><Cite><Author>Jayakanthan</Author><Year>2002</Year><RecNum>69</
RecNum><MDL><REFERENCE_TYPE>0</REFERENCE_TYPE><PAGES>98-102</PAGES><URL>
&lt;Go to ISI&gt;://000175414700004</URL><AUTHORS><AUTHOR>Jayakanthan,
R.</AUTHOR></AUTHORS><TITLE>Application of computer games in the field
of education</TITLE><SECONDARY_TITLE>Electronic
Library</SECONDARY_TITLE><KEYWORDS><KEYWORD>computers; games; learning;
education</KEYWORD></KEYWORDS><YEAR>2002</YEAR><VOLUME>20</VOLUME><NUMBE
R>2</NUMBER><ACCESSION_NUMBER>ISI:000175414700004</ACCESSION_NUMBER></MD
L></Cite></EndNote> (Jayakanthan, 2002) .

It is thus not surprising that aspects of our lives that were not
initially affected by computer-based multimedia are now being
transformed. Two such aspects that are being integrated and made
increasingly less distinct are entertainment- and learning-related
activities. Educational video games, for example, are now being designed
around movie titles   ADDIN EN.CITE
<EndNote><Cite><Author>Jayakanthan</Author><Year>2002</Year><RecNum>69</
RecNum><MDL><REFERENCE_TYPE>0</REFERENCE_TYPE><PAGES>98-102</PAGES><URL>
&lt;Go to ISI&gt;://000175414700004</URL><AUTHORS><AUTHOR>Jayakanthan,
R.</AUTHOR></AUTHORS><TITLE>Application of computer games in the field
of education</TITLE><SECONDARY_TITLE>Electronic
Library</SECONDARY_TITLE><KEYWORDS><KEYWORD>computers; games; learning;
education</KEYWORD></KEYWORDS><YEAR>2002</YEAR><VOLUME>20</VOLUME><NUMBE
R>2</NUMBER><ACCESSION_NUMBER>ISI:000175414700004</ACCESSION_NUMBER></MD
L></Cite></EndNote> (Jayakanthan, 2002)  and routinely played on home
computers   ADDIN EN.CITE
<EndNote><Cite><Author>Kerawalla</Author><Year>2002</Year><RecNum>62</Re
cNum><MDL><REFERENCE_TYPE>0</REFERENCE_TYPE><PAGES>751-771</PAGES><URL>&
lt;Go to ISI&gt;://000180358100001</URL><AUTHORS><AUTHOR>Kerawalla,
L.</AUTHOR><AUTHOR>Crook, C.</AUTHOR></AUTHORS><TITLE>Children&apos;s
computer use at home and at school: context and
continuity</TITLE><SECONDARY_TITLE>British Educational Research
Journal</SECONDARY_TITLE><KEYWORDS><KEYWORD>education</KEYWORD></KEYWORD
S><DATE>Dec</DATE><YEAR>2002</YEAR><VOLUME>28</VOLUME><NUMBER>6</NUMBER>
<ACCESSION_NUMBER>ISI:000180358100001</ACCESSION_NUMBER></MDL></Cite></E
ndNote> (Kerawalla & Crook, 2002) . In contrast, computers at many
schools are still being used heavily for word processing – an activity
that students report finding less than stimulating   ADDIN EN.CITE
<EndNote><Cite><Author>Mumtaz</Author><Year>2001</Year><RecNum>80</RecNu
m><MDL><REFERENCE_TYPE>0</REFERENCE_TYPE><PAGES>347-362</PAGES><URL>&lt;
Go to ISI&gt;://000168371600005</URL><AUTHORS><AUTHOR>Mumtaz,
S.</AUTHOR></AUTHORS><TITLE>Children&apos;s enjoyment and perception of
computer use in the home and the
school</TITLE><SECONDARY_TITLE>Computers &amp;
Education</SECONDARY_TITLE><KEYWORDS><KEYWORD>improving classroom
teaching; gender studies;
teaching/learning</KEYWORD><KEYWORD>strategies; distributed learning
environments; pedagogical issues</KEYWORD><KEYWORD>gender; experience;
environment;
attitudes</KEYWORD></KEYWORDS><DATE>May</DATE><YEAR>2001</YEAR><VOLUME>3
6</VOLUME><NUMBER>4</NUMBER><ACCESSION_NUMBER>ISI:000168371600005</ACCES
SION_NUMBER></MDL></Cite></EndNote> (Mumtaz, 2001) . Given the many
mediated outlets that students now have, each one competing for the
student’s attention, there is greater pressure on educators to be more
creative in the delivery of instructional material.

The introduction of computer games in classrooms has aroused the
interest of researchers across many fields, and as a result more papers
are being published on the subject. Franklin, Peat and Lewis   ADDIN
EN.CITE <EndNote><Cite
ExcludeAuth="1"><Author>Franklin</Author><Year>2003</Year><RecNum>60</Re
cNum><MDL><REFERENCE_TYPE>0</REFERENCE_TYPE><PAGES>79-84</PAGES><URL>&lt
;Go to ISI&gt;://000181923600006</URL><AUTHORS><AUTHOR>Franklin,
S.</AUTHOR><AUTHOR>Peat, M.</AUTHOR><AUTHOR>Lewis,
A.</AUTHOR></AUTHORS><TITLE>Non-traditional interventions to stimulate
discussion: the use of games and puzzles</TITLE><SECONDARY_TITLE>Journal
of Biological Education</SECONDARY_TITLE><KEYWORDS><KEYWORD>card game
discussions; crossword puzzles; effectiveness;
evaluation</KEYWORD><KEYWORD>tool; perspective;
business</KEYWORD></KEYWORDS><DATE>Spr</DATE><YEAR>2003</YEAR><VOLUME>37
</VOLUME><NUMBER>2</NUMBER><ACCESSION_NUMBER>ISI:000181923600006</ACCESS
ION_NUMBER></MDL></Cite></EndNote> (2003)  found that many computer
games allow students to realize and react to the consequences of their
(and their peers’) decisions. Subramanian, Khang and Sai   ADDIN
EN.CITE <EndNote><Cite
ExcludeAuth="1"><Author>Subramanian</Author><Year>1999</Year><RecNum>89<
/RecNum><MDL><REFERENCE_TYPE>0</REFERENCE_TYPE><AUTHORS><AUTHOR>Subraman
ian, R</AUTHOR><AUTHOR>Khang, G. N.</AUTHOR><AUTHOR>Sai, C.
L.</AUTHOR></AUTHORS><YEAR>1999</YEAR><TITLE>Word Juxtapoz-an Innovative
Tool for Promoting Interest in Biological
Education</TITLE><SECONDARY_TITLE>Journal of Biological
Education</SECONDARY_TITLE><VOLUME>33</VOLUME><PAGES>103-104</PAGES></MD
L></Cite></EndNote> (1999)  found that computer games can diminish the
apathy and boredom that affect many students. Heffler   ADDIN EN.CITE
<EndNote><Cite
ExcludeAuth="1"><Author>Heffler</Author><Year>2001</Year><RecNum>87</Rec
Num><MDL><REFERENCE_TYPE>0</REFERENCE_TYPE><AUTHORS><AUTHOR>Heffler,
B.</AUTHOR></AUTHORS><YEAR>2001</YEAR><TITLE>Individual Learning Style
and the Learning Style Inventory</TITLE><SECONDARY_TITLE>Educational
Studies</SECONDARY_TITLE><VOLUME>27</VOLUME><PAGES>307-316</PAGES></MDL>
</Cite></EndNote> (2001)  and De Vita   ADDIN EN.CITE <EndNote><Cite
ExcludeAuth="1"><Author>De
Vita</Author><Year>2001</Year><RecNum>122</RecNum><MDL><REFERENCE_TYPE>0
</REFERENCE_TYPE><AUTHORS><AUTHOR>De Vita,
G.</AUTHOR></AUTHORS><YEAR>2001</YEAR><TITLE>Learning Styles, Culture
and Inclusive Instruction in the Multicultural Classroom: A Business and
Management Perspective</TITLE><SECONDARY_TITLE>Innovation in Education
and Training
International</SECONDARY_TITLE><VOLUME>38</VOLUME><PAGES>165-174</PAGES>
</MDL></Cite></EndNote> (2001)  argue that computer games can help
instructors address differences in learning styles. According to Fleming
and Rickwood   ADDIN EN.CITE <EndNote><Cite
ExcludeAuth="1"><Author>Fleming</Author><Year>2001</Year><RecNum>76</Rec
Num><MDL><REFERENCE_TYPE>0</REFERENCE_TYPE><PAGES>2047-2071</PAGES><URL>
&lt;Go to ISI&gt;://000172745800003</URL><AUTHORS><AUTHOR>Fleming, M.
J.</AUTHOR><AUTHOR>Rickwood, D. J.</AUTHOR></AUTHORS><TITLE>Effects of
violent versus nonviolent video games on children&apos;s arousal,
aggressive mood, and positive mood</TITLE><SECONDARY_TITLE>Journal of
Applied Social Psychology</SECONDARY_TITLE><KEYWORDS><KEYWORD>television
violence; media violence; excitation transfer;
behavior;</KEYWORD><KEYWORD>adolescents; thoughts;
impact</KEYWORD></KEYWORDS><DATE>Oct</DATE><YEAR>2001</YEAR><VOLUME>31</
VOLUME><NUMBER>10</NUMBER><ACCESSION_NUMBER>ISI:000172745800003</ACCESSI
ON_NUMBER></MDL></Cite></EndNote> (2001) , video and computer games
improve the moods of those who play them. His experiment showed that
children who played violent video games experienced increased states of
arousal more frequently than those who played pencil-and-paper games,
but that their tendency towards violence did not increase. Fleming’s
study suggests that video and computer games have the potential to lead
to more satisfying learning experiences

These and other results should not be surprising given that video and
computer games are widely perceived as vehicles for fun and play, and in
such context an association with learning has the potential to increase
a person’s understanding and retention of the material being taught.
With their rich and immersive graphics, interactive capabilities, and
users represented visually as avatars (i.e., graphic representations of
users in virtual space), virtual worlds are similar to video and
computer games in many ways, with a key difference being that the latter
impose grand narratives and superseding goals while the former enable
users to pursue their own goals and construct their own narratives. The
constructivist paradigm that underlies virtual worlds makes them
potentially more enriching for education experiences than traditional
video games.

In the process of developing this chapter we needed to keep in mind that
the focus of this book is on educational games situated in virtual
worlds. In this context we need to think about formal education as a
life long process. With the emergence of online education, more and more
adults are returning to school to obtain higher degrees, to change
careers, or simply to upgrade their skills. These are non-traditional
students that already have work experience and their jobs impede them
from participating in traditional classrooms. They are instead embracing
the flexibility of online education. At the same time many of the
professionals who have recently entered the work force are well versed
with technologies and, as a result, educators have the opportunity to
push the envelop and provide online experiences that challenge them and
provide them with unique learning opportunities.

Virtual Worlds

Play is an activity that enhances children’s abilities by promoting
exploration and experimentation. Children create imagined worlds in
their play. As we grow older, though, our opportunities to explore and
create imagined worlds are increasingly limited, and our creativity is
curbed as a result   ADDIN EN.CITE
<EndNote><Cite><Author>Harter</Author><Year>1981</Year><RecNum>231</RecN
um><MDL><REFERENCE_TYPE>0</REFERENCE_TYPE><AUTHORS><AUTHOR>Harter,
S.</AUTHOR></AUTHORS><YEAR>1981</YEAR><TITLE>A new self-report scale of
intrinsic versus extrinsic orientation in the classroom: Motivational
and informational components.</TITLE><SECONDARY_TITLE>Developmental
Psychology</SECONDARY_TITLE><VOLUME>17</VOLUME><PAGES>300-312</PAGES></M
DL></Cite></EndNote> (Harter, 1981) . Virtual worlds offer an
alternative space where educators can provide students the opportunity
to explore and create. Because they may be perceived as entertainment,
virtual worlds may be appealing to distance students as learning
environments.

Virtual worlds provide great potential for every level of education,
including post-secondary. There are countless examples of educational
institutions that have already identified the potential of this means of
learning. Ohio University (  HYPERLINK
"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aFuNFRie8wA" 
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aFuNFRie8wA ), Harvard Law School ( 
HYPERLINK "http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/cyberone/" 
http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/cyberone/ ) and Case Western Reserve
University (  HYPERLINK "http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/cyberone/" 
http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/cyberone/ ) for example all have campuses
in Second Life (http://secondlife.com/). In these campuses classes are
enhanced with multiple media to enrich the experiences of the online
student population. These environments can allow off campus students to
feel a closer connection to the university. Teachers and peers can
enable experiences that may be difficult to replicate in the real world.
For example, a psychiatry professor at the University of California
Davis created a room where his students were able to see what patients
with schizophrenia often see in their hallucinations   ADDIN EN.CITE
<EndNote><Cite><Author>James</Author><Year>2006</Year><RecNum>236</RecNu
m><MDL><REFERENCE_TYPE>16</REFERENCE_TYPE><AUTHORS><AUTHOR>James,
Kenneth</AUTHOR></AUTHORS><YEAR>2006</YEAR><TITLE>BT: Real Benefits in
Virtual Worlds</TITLE><PUBLISHER>A New
Start</PUBLISHER><VOLUME>2007</VOLUME><NUMBER>June
30th</NUMBER><URL>http://xinkaishi.typepad.com/a_new_start/2006/12/bt_re
al_benefit.html</URL></MDL></Cite></EndNote> (James, 2006) .

Because of the versatility of virtual worlds educators need to realize
that learning activities will require the development of games. This
thus means that much preparation has to occur before the game can be
ready for online classroom use. According to   ADDIN EN.CITE
<EndNote><Cite><Author>Bartle</Author><Year>1990</Year><RecNum>233</RecN
um><MDL><REFERENCE_TYPE>16</REFERENCE_TYPE><AUTHORS><AUTHOR>Bartle,
Richard</AUTHOR></AUTHORS><YEAR>1990</YEAR><TITLE>Interactive Multi-User
Computer Games</TITLE><PUBLISHER>MUSE Ltd, British Telecom
plc</PUBLISHER><VOLUME>2007</VOLUME><NUMBER>June
30</NUMBER><URL>http://www.skepticfiles.org/cowtext/comput~1/mudrepor.ht
m</URL></MDL></Cite></EndNote> (Bartle, 1990) , there are several
elements that make a game. First it should have a set of rules. If the
game entails competition then there should be a way of determining who
wins. This can be done by specifying criteria or by identifying
objectives to be met at the end. Because the purpose of an educational
game is to teach a concept or a skill, the games should allow the
participants to learn or practice whatever skills or knowledge is meant
to be acquired.

Virtual worlds are often perceived to have a steep learning curve and
this is a reason why relatively few educators have made use of virtual
worlds. There are some notable exceptions, however. Kusunoki, Sugimoto
and Hashizume   ADDIN EN.CITE
<EndNote><Cite><Author>Kusunoki</Author><Year>2000</Year><RecNum>11</Rec
Num><MDL><REFERENCE_TYPE>7</REFERENCE_TYPE><PAGES>224-235</PAGES><URL>&l
t;Go to ISI&gt;://000171796400018</URL><AUTHORS><AUTHOR>Kusunoki,
F.</AUTHOR><AUTHOR>Sugimoto, M.</AUTHOR><AUTHOR>Hashizume,
H.</AUTHOR></AUTHORS><TITLE>Towards the integration of physical and
virtual worlds for supporting group
learning</TITLE><SECONDARY_TITLE>Digital
Cities</SECONDARY_TITLE><TERTIARY_TITLE>Lecture Notes in Computer
Science</TERTIARY_TITLE><YEAR>2000</YEAR><VOLUME>1765</VOLUME><ACCESSION
_NUMBER>ISI:000171796400018</ACCESSION_NUMBER></MDL></Cite></EndNote>
(Kusunoki, Sugimoto, & Hashizume, 2000)  have used a virtual world to
teach urban planning and environmental concepts. At the Cornell Theory
Center, researchers have developed a virtual world around the idea of a
museum as a mechanism to teach science, languages and social studies in
a more informal environment   ADDIN EN.CITE
<EndNote><Cite><Author>Maher</Author><Year>2002</Year><RecNum>8</RecNum>
<MDL><REFERENCE_TYPE>0</REFERENCE_TYPE><PAGES>295-308</PAGES><URL>&lt;Go
to ISI&gt;://000179875300005</URL><AUTHORS><AUTHOR>Maher,
C.</AUTHOR><AUTHOR>Corbit, M.</AUTHOR></AUTHORS><TITLE>Creating genetic
applications for informal science learning in multi-user virtual
environments</TITLE><SECONDARY_TITLE>Journal of Network and Computer
Applications</SECONDARY_TITLE><DATE>Oct</DATE><YEAR>2002</YEAR><VOLUME>2
5</VOLUME><NUMBER>4</NUMBER><ACCESSION_NUMBER>ISI:000179875300005</ACCES
SION_NUMBER></MDL></Cite></EndNote> (Maher & Corbit, 2002) . In the
field of health care, researchers have used virtual environments to
teach medical concepts   ADDIN EN.CITE
<EndNote><Cite><Author>Mantovani</Author><Year>2003</Year><RecNum>5</Rec
Num><MDL><REFERENCE_TYPE>0</REFERENCE_TYPE><PAGES>389-395</PAGES><URL>&l
t;Go to ISI&gt;://000185020600007</URL><AUTHORS><AUTHOR>Mantovani,
F.</AUTHOR><AUTHOR>Castelnuovo, G.</AUTHOR><AUTHOR>Gaggioli,
A.</AUTHOR><AUTHOR>Riva, G.</AUTHOR></AUTHORS><TITLE>Virtual reality
training for health-care
professionals</TITLE><SECONDARY_TITLE>Cyberpsychology &amp;
Behavior</SECONDARY_TITLE><KEYWORDS><KEYWORD>emergency-medicine;
education; environments; simulation;
technology;</KEYWORD><KEYWORD>surgery</KEYWORD></KEYWORDS><DATE>Aug</DAT
E><YEAR>2003</YEAR><VOLUME>6</VOLUME><NUMBER>4</NUMBER><ACCESSION_NUMBER
>ISI:000185020600007</ACCESSION_NUMBER></MDL></Cite></EndNote>
(Mantovani, Castelnuovo, Gaggioli, & Riva, 2003) . 

In this paper we will use, Gee’s   ADDIN EN.CITE
<EndNote><Cite><Author>Gee</Author><Year>2003</Year><RecNum>92</RecNum><
MDL><REFERENCE_TYPE>1</REFERENCE_TYPE><AUTHORS><AUTHOR>Gee, James
P.</AUTHOR></AUTHORS><YEAR>2003</YEAR><TITLE>What Video Games Have to
Teach us About Learning and Literacy</TITLE><PLACE_PUBLISHED>New York,
NY</PLACE_PUBLISHED><PUBLISHER>Pelgrave
MacMillan</PUBLISHER><PAGES>225</PAGES><EDITION>First</EDITION></MDL></C
ite></EndNote> (Gee, 2003)  ‘learning principles’ to show how
virtual worlds can enhance learning. We will pair these learning
principles to the virtual world to determine if there is pedagogical
value in the use of these synthetic environments.

Sample Politics Game for a Virtual World

This paper is a synchronous role-playing simulation based on a game
developed by Geoff Wong   ADDIN EN.CITE
<EndNote><Cite><Author>Laver</Author><Year>1979</Year><RecNum>237</RecNu
m><MDL><REFERENCE_TYPE>1</REFERENCE_TYPE><AUTHORS><AUTHOR>Laver,
Michael</AUTHOR></AUTHORS><YEAR>1979</YEAR><TITLE>Playing
Politics</TITLE><PLACE_PUBLISHED>New
York</PLACE_PUBLISHED><PUBLISHER>Penguin</PUBLISHER></MDL></Cite></EndNo
te> (Laver, 1979)  [see appendix for instructions]. In this game in
which each player assumes one of 12 roles (e.g., U.S. Senator, AT&T Vice
President, Director of the Business Software Alliance) and tries to
convince other players to vote in accordance with his or her role’s
interests on one or more of three legislative bills. Players are
instructed to employ any strategy at their disposal to accomplish this
and hopefully those that are outline in the policy section of this
paper. The use of actual bills makes it easier for instructors when
students ask for more information about them. Our simulation made use of
three bills that have recently been considered by one or more
legislative bodies:

SPY ACT (Securely Protect Yourself Against Cyber Trespass Act). If
passed, SPY ACT would impose fines of up to $3 million against makers of
software that steal personal information from a user’s computer or
hijack a user’s browser.

Digital Media Consumers’ Rights (DMCR) Bill. If passed, the DMCR Bill
would (a) allow consumers to break copy controls to make personal copies
of audio tracks or movies from discs (CDs, DVDs) they own, and (b)
require all copy-protected CDs and DVDs to be labeled as such.

Broadband Regulation and Modernization (BRM) Bill. If passed, the BRM
Bill would prohibit a government or any entity it creates from offering
broadband service for free.

Ideally, the students will begin the simulation knowing a great deal
more about these bills than what is provided by these summaries. Two
factors work against this ideal, though. First, instructions for playing
are relatively long, even with the summaries, and would be made even
longer with, say, an appendix detailing the bills’ specifications.
Players of any game tend to find a thick stack of instructions daunting.
Detail must always be balanced with “playability” and a reasonably
shallow learning curve. Second, the chief pedagogical aim of the
simulation is to teach lobbying concepts. If, in the process, students
learn more about the bills used to demonstrate these concepts – and
they most certainly will – then the simulation can be considered a
success on multiple levels. However, depending on the course being
taught, instructors may not have the time to teach students lobbying
concepts and the history and particularities of the bills. 

One of the most challenging aspects of designing this simulation is the
need to establish a “level playing field” at the outset. In other
words, at the start of each simulation, each bill should have, to the
extent possible, an equal number of roles with explicit voting
preferences supporting and opposing it. To run a simulation in which,
say, eight players initially oppose a bill serves to disadvantage (and
possibly discourage) the four players who favor it. 

We created 12 roles that, to varying degrees and in various ways, had a
stake in one, two or all three of the bills listed above. We chose to
create 12 roles because believed that it would be difficult to
coordinate the conversations and lobbying efforts of a larger group
during the simulation. These roles included:

The Governor of the state of New York;

The Vice President of AOL/Time Warner;

The Director of the Computer & Communications Industry Association
(CCIA);

The Vice President of AT&T;

The Director of the New York Association of Cities and Towns (NYACT);

The Director of the Business Software Alliance (BSA);

The Director of the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF);

The Chancellor of the State University of New York (SUNY);

The Director of the American Marketing Association (AMA);

The Director of the American Library Association (ALA);

The Deputy Secretary of the U.S. Department of Higher Education; and

A United States Senator from the state of New York.

A final and important design choice for this simulation is the decision
to include or exclude explicit voting preferences for each role at the
outset. In other words, instructors can opt to tell students how they
(in their roles) intend, at least initially, to vote on each bill, or
they can withhold this information and let the students decide this for
themselves based on a brief statement of their role’s mission, which
is provided to them by the instructor. As with the level of detail on
selected bills, this decision may be influenced by time constraints,
pedagogical objectives, and assumptions about students’ abilities and
diligence.

One of our chief concerns in this game is that students may not take the
time to conduct rudimentary research on their roles and, as a result,
could ask us for additional information. Further, we speculated that
knowing how one’s role initially stands on a bill might help students
assume their roles more faithfully and, as a result, make them less
inclined to play and vote according to personal preferences towards the
bill. 

Finally, if one opts, to tell students how their role initially stands
on each bill, then it is essential to design the simulation such that
each role has, at the outset, an explicitly undecided voting preference,
or is said to be merely leaning in one direction, on at least one of the
bills. It is hoped that this gives each player greater freedom to try to
influence their fellow participants. In this simulation two of the
roles– the Governor of New York and the U.S. Senator from New York –
are designed as undecided on all three bills, perhaps causing these two
roles to wield a disproportionately greater influence on voting
outcomes.

Selecting a Virtual World

When working on the game we were inspired to design and conduct an
avatar-based virtual simulation to offer students a stimulating
alternative to the more conventional activities that are enacted in
physical classrooms. We also wanted to break away from the traditional
bulletin board discussions of online education. While these conventional
modes have been shown to be pedagogically useful, we speculated that a
simulation performed by avatars in a graphically rich online environment
might possess a distinctive quality that is particularly appealing to
undergraduate and graduate students. One of the authors had already
designed and conducted a simulation for use in a physical classroom, so
our tasks involved identifying a suitable virtual world and adapting the
simulation for it.

We examined two virtual worlds: Second Life and Habbo Hotel. For our
purposes, the power to create and modify an avatar and three-dimensional
virtual environment using cutting-edge and relatively sophisticated
design tools, though impressive, entails a steep learning curve for
beginners. This concern, coupled with the required US$10 per person
membership cost, which has since been waived, led us to consider Sulake
Corporation’s Habbo Hotel, a virtual world designed for and marketed
to teens. Sulake’s aim of profitably supporting affirmative online
communities for paying teens, though beneficent, was not a factor in our
decision to use Habbo Hotel. Instead, we wanted a virtual world that:

Lets typical (non-expert) users easily create and use an expressive and
visually appealing avatar;

Makes it easy for users to communicate through and move their avatars;

Provides private virtual space (such as a virtual room) in which members
of a small group can interact comfortably and without interruption;

Possesses a vibrant interface (or “look and feel”) that might appeal
to undergraduate and graduate students; and

Imposes no monetary costs on the students participating in the
simulation.

Sulake’s revenues come chiefly from users who purchase Habbo credits
to decorate the empty virtual rooms. As Figure 1 illustrates, we
furnished the “lobbying room” with assorted rugs and chairs, a blue
pinstriped floor, a potted palm tree and two whimsical plaques for the
walls, all for US$20.

Figure 1: A screen capture of the “Logrolling Room” in Habbo Hotel.
An author’s avatar sits pensively in one of the chairs.

Habbo Hotel satisfied our other conditions as well. All avatars look
like cartoonish depictions of adults but some distinctiveness can be
achieved through one’s selection of skin color, hair color and style,
facial expression, and the style and color of one’s shirt,
pants/skirt/shorts and shoes. Finally, the authors, each with limited
experience in virtual worlds, found moving their avatars and navigating
Habbo Hotel relatively simple and straightforward. Thus, despite being
somewhat concerned about the reactions of college students to a virtual
environment with a somewhat adolescent motif, the authors chose to use a
specially designated room in Habbo Hotel as the space in which to
conduct the simulation.

Educational Benefits of Games in Virtual Worlds

While it is clear that students have a lot more sources for
entertainment and information this does not necessarily imply that games
in virtual worlds would be beneficial for learning. To determine the
effectiveness of games in these online environments this section
presents an analysis of the learning principles that Gee   ADDIN EN.CITE
<EndNote><Cite><Author>Gee</Author><Year>2003</Year><RecNum>92</RecNum><
MDL><REFERENCE_TYPE>1</REFERENCE_TYPE><AUTHORS><AUTHOR>Gee, James
P.</AUTHOR></AUTHORS><YEAR>2003</YEAR><TITLE>What Video Games Have to
Teach us About Learning and Literacy</TITLE><PLACE_PUBLISHED>New York,
NY</PLACE_PUBLISHED><PUBLISHER>Pelgrave
MacMillan</PUBLISHER><PAGES>225</PAGES><EDITION>First</EDITION></MDL></C
ite></EndNote> (Gee, 2003)  proposed in his book entitled What Video
Games Have to Teach us About Learning and Literacy. Many of the 36
learning principles that Gee presents are, however, closely related and
to simplify the presentation of the analysis with respect to games and
virtual worlds the authors grouped these 36 principles into 8 larger
categories.	

When Gee wrote his book he was focusing primarily on video games and not
necessarily on virtual worlds. The goal of this analysis is to determine
if the learning principles that he proposed in the context of video
games can also apply to virtual worlds. It is also important to realize
that due to the fact that virtual worlds are not games per se, much of
the learning that takes place comes from the games or simulations that
the instructor prepares in advance for the students. In this paper we
described an information policy simulation. Thus the analysis of Gee’s
principles for this section is done here within the context of that
simulation.

 

Active and Reflective Learning. The simulation was intended to teach
students about the strategies that lobbyists of government officials
commonly use to influence policy. In this case each student played the
role of a different character and was asked to influence to vote in
favor of their character’s interests. The simulation used the Habbo
Hotel platform. The simulation required the students to identify the
viewpoints of other characters and then try to influence them through
conversation. The students have the opportunity to experiment with
multiple strategies as they participate in the game. They have to
discover the positions of those who do not share their views and then
think critically about the arguments that they can use to convert them
to their side. They can also experiment and strategize to make their
influencing efforts more effective. This process of discovery and being
actively engaged in the activity help them learn the complexities of the
lobbying process first hand.

 

Context Oriented Learning. One of the major advantages of virtual worlds
and games is the many opportunities that students have to learn from new
environments and be able to adapt to new circumstances. A virtual world
offers multiple opportunities for that. First every time that a person
enters a virtual world they need to learn from the context itself, the
design, other characters, and virtual artifacts. They also have the
opportunity of learning from a variety of media such as graphics, text,
sounds and even voice. From the context and the different media they
need to find the meaning of these elements and the culture of this
virtual world to determine norms of conduct. It is through careful
observation that students learn these subtleties. In the context of the
policy simulation the students need to determine whether it is better to
shout, to speak, or to whisper a given comment. Some of these text
speaking modes will be acceptable under certain circumstances while
others will not. They need to determine if it is better to lobby a group
of people at once or somebody alone. They need to determine how to
initiate a conversation or how to join a conversation that has already
started. All of these norms of conduct are each new opportunities for
experimentation and learning. They can become more attuned to small
subtleties in changes that happen in the environment that surrounds them
or in the people that participate. This type of experience is difficult
to emulate in the real world because it is not easy to move individuals
to totally different contexts. This is even more challenging for online
classes where it will be impossible to bring everyone to a single
location. The more that students participate in this type of activity
the more likely that their senses will be sharpened and they will be
able to more easily adapt to many different types of circumstances. In
the context of the policy simulation the students are putting themselves
in a virtual world where they are experiencing real time interaction
with their peers who are each playing roles. Their behavior in a
synchronous environment will thus differ from the behavior that they are
accustomed to from bulletin boards. In this setting they have to spend
some time learning about the interests of the people that they need to
lobby. They need to be able to identify them as each of the participants
is represented in the virtual world as an avatar. Thus they need to
observe all of the characters carefully to be able to identify the
person that they want to influence. Much of the learning is not dictated
but rather comes from participating in the game.

 

Transfer of Knowledge. While the students learn from the context and the
characters that participate in the game the most important element of
the game is the possibility of being able to transfer the knowledge that
they learn from the virtual environment to real life situation. In the
case of the policy simulation one of the objectives of the game is not
necessarily to learn the skills of a lobbyist. It is true that part of
the content that they need to learn for the information policy class is
the different theories about influence but this type of information is
not relevant to them unless they can find a way of applying it. Some
fields have direct connections with policy while others are indirect. It
will be easier for students in fields with stronger policy connections
to apply what they learn.

 

Learning through Practice. It is clear that many kids are highly skilled
at playing video games. This happens because they have the opportunity
to practice countless times which eventually improves their skills at
whatever task they need to complete. Virtual worlds have the potential
of providing this type of practice but it is much more limited within
the context of a class because it will require the presence of other
students. The possibility for practice will depend on how open the
teacher wants to make the environment. In order to provide students with
opportunities for practice there will need to be a critical mass of
participants, all of whom know the instructions. While this could be
possible within the context of a commercial virtual world it is less
likely to be the case for an educational game. One of the things that
educators should keep in mind when developing or modifying games for
these virtual worlds is the graduated experience that the participant
gets when playing the games. These games begin with simple tasks and
then over time the tasks become more complex. It is for this reason that
young people return again and again to play because they know that they
can, with practice, reach a higher level. With a higher level there is
also the reward of finding new things, new experiences, and new
challenges. This should be taken into account when setting up a game for
a virtual world. Easier tasks should come first and then adding modules
or changing the rules to add more elements of greater complexity can
potentially keep the students interested in the game to be enthusiastic
about playing.

The lobbying simulation that was presented in this paper was not
designed in this manner. It was set to be played once with a specific
set of rules. The game could be modified to have, for example, a session
where the lobbyists organize and then a session with potential policy
makers. This can at least provide more than one opportunity to interact
with the content of the class as well as providing two different
experiences. Of the learning principles identified by Gee the ones
related to practice are perhaps the most difficult to achieve within the
context of a game in a virtual world.

 

Learning through Achievement. People are limited in their tolerance of
disappointment. It has been shown that most people react more positively
to positive than to negative feedback.   ADDIN EN.CITE
<EndNote><Cite><Author>McKeachie</Author><Year>2002</Year><RecNum>235</R
ecNum><MDL><REFERENCE_TYPE>1</REFERENCE_TYPE><AUTHORS><AUTHOR>McKeachie,
Wilbert</AUTHOR><AUTHOR>Gibbs,
Graham</AUTHOR></AUTHORS><YEAR>2002</YEAR><TITLE>Teaching Tips:
Strategies, Research, and Theory for College and University
Teachers</TITLE><PLACE_PUBLISHED>Boston,
MA</PLACE_PUBLISHED><PUBLISHER>Houghton Mifflin
Company</PUBLISHER></MDL></Cite></EndNote> (McKeachie & Gibbs, 2002) 
Games have the power of providing players with the satisfaction of
winning. While in a multi-player game someone will have to lose this is
generally understood not as a failure but as an attempt. Young people
are thus not discouraged and instead try a new strategy, taking risks.
Given that failure in games does not translate into failure in real life
the benefit of taking risks outweighs the costs of losing. It is
precisely because of this that players have the opportunity of learning
from the many attempts that they make in these worlds. The policy
simulation in Habbo Hotel allows the students to try multiple strategies
to try to influence their peers. They can use scare tactics, provide
statistical information that supports their point, make deals to trade
votes, or work with others who have similar interests to try to
influence the policy issues at stake. If, for example, they failed to
influence one person they may try a different technique the next time
and, with trial and error, be able to determine the strategies that work
best. Success in a simple, controlled, and fun environment keeps
students interested in a task. Having achieved success in easier tasks
motivates them to try more complicated ones. Educators, when developing
games or simulations, should think about the opportunities that they
offer students to achieve success to motivate them to take on more
difficult content or skills.

 

Self Learning. Virtual worlds provide opportunities for people to learn
about themselves and about others. Educators have to keep in mind that
virtual worlds are not bound by the laws of nature and they are not as
bound by traditional social rules. With this in mind games for these
worlds can be developed with great creativity and in a fantastic world.
Depending on the subject matter educators can ask students to take on
real or fictional characters for whom they will then take on different
behavioral traits. In this process of assuming somebody else’s persona
they can learn much about the circumstances that the person faces and
the problems or benefits of having such a life. This can then give them
an opportunity to compare the situation of this fictional character with
their own life and learn from having or facing different circumstances.
In the lobbying game the students are given the opportunity to be
politicians, librarians, CEOs, presidents and in these roles they will
then have to learn about each of these characters’ interests as well
as the interests of others to be able to be effective at lobbying for
their cause.

Evidence of the type of understanding that can take place between people
when they take different characters is exemplified by Eric Brown and Asi
Burak’s game Peacemaker which won the Public Diplomacy and Virtual
Worlds competition organized by the University of Southern
California’s Center on Public Diplomacy. In the game the participants
take either Israeli or Palestinian characters and the objective is to
make peace. This sort of simulation could involve roles such as a CEO, a
youth counselor, or a terrorist. By taking somebody else’s identity,
students can learn about content and context that in the past were only
available in books. They can form opinions about a situation not from
the detached and foreign context of books but from actually living the
experience itself within a virtual world. These experiences also help
them form their own views and learn about their own values and
interests.

 

Content. The quality of content is critical for educators. While
lectures and discussion boards in an online environment allow students
to talk about an issue and reflect on the issue at hand, this knowledge
can be superficial and likely to be forgotten. In a virtual world
students are put in the middle of situations in a unique context. As a
result, they are more likely to remember the issues illustrated given
that they will inevitably have to make more effort in preparing and in
testing many alternative actions. The mistakes they make and the
successes they have will be remembered longer. Their reading now has a
more concrete, even if fictional context. They can now decide the type
of information that is more relevant for the situation. They are given
the opportunity to select information on an as needed basis and take and
relate information that is important for the type of activity that they
are engaged in. This process thus allows for a much deeper level of
knowledge.

The scope of topics that can be explored is nearly unlimited in Second
Life. For example, people can develop businesses, pay for items with
virtual world currency, and develop real state. Universities and other
organizations can have a virtual presence. Virtual worlds are not
limited by the physics and rules of the real world and thus can create
more memorable situations. In addition, real world situations can be
emulated in a virtual world. This flexibility of the medium can allow
educators to convey a wide variety of information.

These activities are, however, time consuming to create, a major
disincentive for educators. It is much easier to lecture for two hours
on a subject than to develop a game, write clear instructions, see that
students go to a virtual world and develop their characters, and then
hope that the technology will work as expected. It is much more labor
intensive for the same amount of knowledge conveyed. In the lobbying
simulation, much preparation had to be done ahead of time and the
students were required to participate in an orientation session before
they were actually able to participate in the game. In order to minimize
the amount of time necessary to play an educational game the instructor
should try to think of several concepts that can be bundled together
such that one effort is able to convey more knowledge. Alternatively one
game can be built in a modular manner such as content experienced at
various times in an incremental way. Bundling and gradualism are thus
two important components for an effective delivery of content in a
virtual world activity.

 

Social Learning. Prior to data networks video games were solitary and
players interacted with the computer alone. With the advent of the
Internet and the expansion of broadband, games have increasingly
involved interaction among human players. Virtual worlds in their
massively multiplayer form could not have existed without the Internet
because the nature of the experience relies on the existence of other
participants. Educators can take advantage of the social aspect of the
game to foster collaboration. A game, although generally conceived as a
zero sum experience, can be developed so that effective collaboration
rather than direct competition leads to winning. In the lobbying game,
social interaction is central to the success of the simulation.
Communication allows the participants to practice their skills at
influence. In this case winners of the game were those that were able to
convert more individuals to get a bill to be voted in their favor. This
type of game can create intellectual conflicts because a participant can
be required to argue for and vote for a policy that he/she disapproves
of.

Challenges for Educators Using Games in Virtual Worlds

While there are many potential rewards, as described in the previous
section, there are also important challenges that educators need to keep
in mind when developing games for virtual worlds. We were able to
identify these challenges from the process of developing the lobbying
game.

The first and greatest challenge is to develop the game itself. Most
university faculty do not have formal training in education, much less
game development. However educators should realize that in the Internet
era it should not be difficult for them to find games designed for
classroom use that could be adapted for a virtual world. This can
substantially reduce the development time.

Second, while there are games already developed, these have not been
archived in a single location and thus it will take some time and effort
to find them. 

Third, the adaptation process is still time consuming because detailed
instructions need to be written for the students as a group as well as
specific instructions for the participating characters. To make sure
that the game works the professor should test the game a couple of times
with a small group of students to find weaknesses before using it in a
class.

Fourth, technology is unpredictable. Even in the process of developing
the game without yet having it tested with students we experienced
technological difficulties. In our case the authors could not enter the
virtual world by mistake because one of us was entering the American
site while the other had prepared the lobbying room from the English
site. While this is a minor mistake other technical problems can easily
happen, in particular regarding speed of connectivity and learning to
navigate and function in a virtual world. To minimize the technical
problems it will be desirable, as suggested before, that the professor
familiarize the students with the virtual world before running the
simulation.

Fifth, anonymity poses difficulties. In entertainment-based virtual
worlds anonymity can lead to negative behaviors that, if present in an
educational setting, can severely affect the dynamics of the game. In an
anonymous environment the participant may take more risks but these can
be undesirable risks from the perspective of others. Educators thus have
to consider the behavioral standards that would be acceptable in the
virtual world while the game is taking place. The teacher should
consider when to reprimand and even expel a student who engages in
inappropriate behavior. In all of these situations testing the game
before using it in a class will help to minimize these challenges.

Future Trends

Virtual worlds are still new environments that are likely to evolve into
complex settings that can provide rich and challenging experiences for
students. Online distance education is based on the traditional campus
education. However because it is no longer necessary to be physically
present in a campus there is thus no need to have the student admitted
to a particular university to be able to take a class. It is thus
possible that in the future we could see models where students can
develop their classes a la carte and be able to select from a variety of
topics from different institutions and obtain a customized degree.

Virtual worlds could become the online classroom of the future in place
of traditional bulletin boards. In these settings the professor can
immerse the student in the context that relates to the content of the
class. These experiential learning encounters can also be recorded and
serve as reference and future learning for students that were unable to
attend. 

In virtual worlds distance does not matter and thus students can moved
from one situation to another in a matter of seconds. Different topics
covered in the curriculum could thus take place in multiple contexts.
Students which were situated in a classroom alone or on a bulletin board
alone could now be taken to multiple settings for many of the topics of
the class. 

With the popularity of educational games in virtual worlds open source
efforts by faculty and students will help to develop more simulations.
These worlds will allow developers to work together on the development
of a simulated environment and learn in the process as well. In
addition, because of these experiences, the learning curve that we
experience today will be reduced because these setting will become
second nature to students and extensive tutorials prior to games will
not be necessary.

In virtual worlds students do not need to take only human personae but
also any other organisms. Thus a student learning about zoology can
become an insect for example and experience first hand the life of this
organism. A chemistry student can become a molecule and once again see
first hand how they interact with other elements.

In the context of life long learning students who are about to enter
college can get to know what the life of a stock broker, or an
archeologist, or a scientist is like. These simulations can move high
school students from shadow career days that are difficult to coordinate
and expensive to implement to virtual worlds where they can actually
experience the careers that they are considering.

At the edges, one of the most exciting parts of virtual worlds can occur
when the simulation is no longer a game and becomes a reality. Real
world interactions and economic transactions take place. A class that
started with a simulation and a role playing game can enter the real
world through a virtual experience. Imagine, for example, a psychology
student who is learning to become a therapist in a role playing game. He
could initially have patients through role play but after gaining some
experience they could provide counseling online to people who are unable
to attend a therapy session in person. A student can thus learn in a
controlled environment prior to encountering patients.

Conclusion

There are several lessons that can be learned from games in virtual
worlds. First it is clear that the medium provides students many
opportunities to learn about themselves through taking on multiple
personae or even other entities. They can learn from participating in
many contexts, each of which can provide different content. A multimedia
environment in a digitally literate society can help to enrich the
experience making the learning much more immersive and compelling. The
social interactions can also support learning by allowing
collaborations. 

These virtual worlds will become the online education of the future
because of the flexibility and the richness that educational games can
provide students. At this point in time however there are important
challenges to overcome. These can be attributed to the fact that we are
just beginning to utilize this medium for distance education and we do
not yet have the tools and the skills to develop games and work with
students. Even though students today are more technologically
sophisticated most have not yet been exposed to this type of experience.
Thus the learning curve for them is still steep. 

Few faculty members are sufficiently aware of these simulated
environments and thus few resources have been provided to facilitate
this type of education. However, the increasing popularity of these
worlds and the presence of some universities and companies inside them
will create the critical mass necessary to make development of the
environment much easier, such as the creation of libraries that collect
virtual world games and simulations for the many disciplines that are
taught today in our campuses. The physical worlds will no longer dictate
the rules of the virtual worlds and over time a completely different
educational experience can become the distance education of the future.

References

  QUOTE EN.REFLIST  Bartle, R. (1990). Interactive Multi-User Computer
Games. MUSE Ltd, British Telecom plc. Retrieved June 30, 2007, from the
World Wide Web:   HYPERLINK
"http://www.skepticfiles.org/cowtext/comput~1/mudrepor.htm" 
http://www.skepticfiles.org/cowtext/comput~1/mudrepor.htm 

De Vita, G. (2001). Learning Styles, Culture and Inclusive Instruction
in the Multicultural Classroom: A Business and Management Perspective.
Innovation in Education and Training International, 38, 165-174.

Fleming, M. J., & Rickwood, D. J. (2001). Effects of violent versus
nonviolent video games on children's arousal, aggressive mood, and
positive mood. Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 31(10), 2047-2071.

Franklin, S., Peat, M., & Lewis, A. (2003). Non-traditional
interventions to stimulate discussion: the use of games and puzzles.
Journal of Biological Education, 37(2), 79-84.

Gee, J. P. (2003). What Video Games Have to Teach us About Learning and
Literacy (First ed.). New York, NY: Pelgrave MacMillan.

Harter, S. (1981). A new self-report scale of intrinsic versus extrinsic
orientation in the classroom: Motivational and informational components.
Developmental Psychology, 17, 300-312.

Heffler, B. (2001). Individual Learning Style and the Learning Style
Inventory. Educational Studies, 27, 307-316.

James, K. (2006). BT: Real Benefits in Virtual Worlds. A New Start.
Retrieved June 30th, 2007, from the World Wide Web:   HYPERLINK
"http://xinkaishi.typepad.com/a_new_start/2006/12/bt_real_benefit.html" 
http://xinkaishi.typepad.com/a_new_start/2006/12/bt_real_benefit.html 

Jayakanthan, R. (2002). Application of computer games in the field of
education. Electronic Library, 20(2), 98-102.

Kerawalla, L., & Crook, C. (2002). Children's computer use at home and
at school: context and continuity. British Educational Research Journal,
28(6), 751-771.

Kusunoki, F., Sugimoto, M., & Hashizume, H. (2000). Towards the
integration of physical and virtual worlds for supporting group
learning, Digital Cities (Vol. 1765, pp. 224-235).

Laver, M. (1979). Playing Politics. New York: Penguin.

Maher, C., & Corbit, M. (2002). Creating genetic applications for
informal science learning in multi-user virtual environments. Journal of
Network and Computer Applications, 25(4), 295-308.

Mantovani, F., Castelnuovo, G., Gaggioli, A., & Riva, G. (2003). Virtual
reality training for health-care professionals. Cyberpsychology &
Behavior, 6(4), 389-395.

McKeachie, W., & Gibbs, G. (2002). Teaching Tips: Strategies, Research,
and Theory for College and University Teachers. Boston, MA: Houghton
Mifflin Company.

Mumtaz, S. (2001). Children's enjoyment and perception of computer use
in the home and the school. Computers & Education, 36(4), 347-362.

Subramanian, R., Khang, G. N., & Sai, C. L. (1999). Word Juxtapoz-an
Innovative Tool for Promoting Interest in Biological Education. Journal
of Biological Education, 33, 103-104.

 

Key Terms and Their Definitions

Distance education: A learning environment for students that take
classes primarily on line from different locations “Teaching and
learning in which learning normally occurs in a different place from
teaching.” (http://www1.worldbank.org/disted/glossary.html).

Course management systems: Software applications designed to facilitate
online education using a web interface. The system can manage
enrollment, content, and grades among other things.

Lifelong education: The process of continued learning after an
individual leaves formal education. This can include college continuing
education courses, correspondence, and certifications in physical or
distance format.

Video Game: Entertainment software with predetermined goals that can be
played through specialized equipment or with a computer.

Virtual World: A graphically immersive, persistent, shared, and
typically avatar-based digital environment that is generally hosted on
servers connected to the Internet.

Avatar: A graphical image that represents a user in a virtual world.

Simulation: A simplified model that attempts to represent a situation
that the creator intends.

Role playing game: A game where the participants take a real or
fictional persona for entertainment or education.

 The authors acknowledge the support of Joe Rubleske, who helped in the
selection of the virtual world and designed the roles and the room that
for the policy game.

 We invented a body that we named the New York Association of Cities and
Towns in order to have a role that represents local interests. 

 

