Reframing Book Publishing in the Age of NetworkingJana Bradley, PhD

University of Arizona

1515 E First St

Tucson, AZ 85717 

+1 (520) 621-3565

janabrad@email.arizona.edu

Heather Vokac, MLS

University of Arizona

1515 E First St

Tucson, AZ 85717 

+1 (520) 621-3565

vokach@email.arizona.edu

ABSTRACT

This paper presents preliminary results of an on-going examination of
book publishing practices emerging through the complex interaction of
technological, economic, and socio-cultural factors in the networking
environment of the Internet. The theoretical framework guiding the study
is a diachronic definition of book publishing proposed by Thomas R.
Adams and Nicolas Barker in “A New Model for the Study of the Book,”
first published in A Potency of Life: Books in Society, by the British
Library in 1993. The Adams/Barker definition of publishing focuses on
“the initial decision to multiply a text or image for
distribution,”. In this paper, we propose what we intend as a friendly
amendment to their definition: for our purposes, a book publisher is an
individual or a collective that makes the initial decisions and
arrangements for multiple copies of books to be publicly available for
distribution. The methodology for this work was to study a purposive
sample of book publishers found on the Internet that fit our
definitional framework. Our final sample, which we call emerging
publishers, is just under 300 publishers.  This sample was divided into
three categories: Category I: Book Publishing Entities; Category II
Author as Publisher and Category III Channels to Market. Each category
is sub-divided, defined and described. Tables are included which show
the publishers in each category. The paper concludes with observations
across categories about format, shifts in publishers’ roles, standards
of publishing practice, costs, and discovery, reception and reading and
survival.

 

Topics

Community technologies and networking

Cultural information systems

Information technology and services

Keywords

Electronic publishing

Publishing in the 21st Century

Emerging Publishers

Copyright and Disclaimer Information

The copyright of this document remains with the authors and/or their
institutions. By submitting their papers to the iSchools Conference 2008
web site, the authors hereby grant a non-exclusive license for the
iSchools to post and disseminate their papers on its web site and any
other electronic media. Contact the authors directly for any use outside
of downloading and referencing this paper. Neither the iSchools nor any
of its associated universities endorse this work. The authors are solely
responsible for their paper’s content. Our thanks to the Association
for Computing Machinery for permission to adapt and use their template
for the iSchools 2008 Conference. 

INTRODUCTION

This paper presents preliminary results of an on-going examination of
book publishing practices emerging through the complex interaction of
technological, economic, and socio-cultural factors in the networking
environment of the Internet. The theoretical framework guiding the study
is a diachronic definition of book publishing proposed by Thomas R.
Adams and Nicolas Barker in “A New Model for the Study of the Book,”
first published in “A Potency of Life: Books in Society, by the
British Library in 1993 and reissued in 2001 in paperback by the British
Library and Oak Knoll Press. They were interested in developing a
definition that would accommodate changes in publishing practices from
the manuscript book period to the present day. They comment that while
the most familiar form of publishing is commercial, models of publishing
that are not driven by profit have existed from the rise of the western
manuscript book trade forward. They give as examples the publishing
activities of governments, religious institutions, and individuals
supported by patronage.

The Adams/Barker definition of publishing focuses on “the initial
decision to multiply a text or image for distribution,” (Adams/Barker,
2001, p. 15), and identifies four roles involved in this decision:
author, financier, manufacturer and distributor, which in any given
period of time might be performed by distinct parties or might be done
in any combination. The Adams/Barker model also depicts five events in
the life of a book: publication, manufacture, distribution, reception
and survival. These events are conceptualized as occurring within the
context of what they call the socio-economic conjecture, including
commercial pressures, intellectual, legal and religious influences, and
the realms of social behavior and taste.

A diachronic definition of publishing, i.e. a definition that is generic
enough to encompass the study of book publishing as it changes over
time, is ideally suited to an examination of the changes that are
occurring in the patterns and practices with which books today come into
being as objects, are made publicly available, are discovered by
potential audiences, read or not read, and survive or do not survive. In
this paper, we propose what we intend as a friendly amendment to
Adams/Barker: for our purposes, a book publisher is an individual or a
collective that makes the initial decisions and arrangements for
multiple copies of books to be publicly available for distribution.

It is worth noting that this definition, while we believe it gets at the
essential activity underlying the diachronic practice of book
publishing, does not require features of the publishing practices we
know best from the twentieth century, such as commercial mainstream
publishing companies with large financial investment for manufacture,
tight gate keeping of published material, a body of book writing and
publishing expertise interpreted and enforced by editors and publishers,
consolidated distribution, and above all, print format. All these
features certainly still exist in publishing, and arguably, still
dominate, but by using a definition that does not require these
features, we can not only see continuity with publishing from the
manuscript book forward, but we are more likely to see changes that are
emerging in the technological, economic and socio-cultural world of
networking as currently instantiated on the Internet. In addition to
their diachronic definition of book publishing, the theoretical context
of Adams and Barker’s work, including the identification of
historically shifting roles and the socio-economic conjecture in which
they situate the activities and technologies that comprise the events in
the lives of books, shapes our thinking in this study.

The focus of this study is book publishing, although the diachronic
definition of publishing above can be applied to other types of content.
For our purposes, we have defined a book loosely as any publication of
monographic length with a sustained narrative or argument, either
textual or visual or in combination, and some familial relationship to
the genre we know as the printed book, including some combination
author, chapters, tables of contents, ISBN number and other
resemblances.

METHODOLOGY

The methodology for this work was to study a purposive sample of book
publishers that fit our definitional framework, continuing to search
until we were not retrieving examples that seemed new in significant
ways. Our final sample, which we call emerging publishers, is just under
300 publishers. Given the enormity and constantly changing nature of the
Internet, this is obviously not a complete universe. We also chose not
to examine print publishers who did not use themselves use the Internet
for distribution and sales of books, although many of these
publishers’ works are available through the distributors and
aggregators that were included. The ways that digital technologies are
changing traditional print publishing practices, excluding electronic
books, have been documented thoroughly by John Thompson in Books in the
Digital Age (2005). Those traditional publishers who are experimenting
with the emerging publishing environment on the Internet are represented
well in our sample.

CATEGORICAL ANALYSIS

Our goal was to organize our sample around categories whose
characteristics call attention to key differences among our publishers
and their activities. The categories were not intended to be mutually
exclusive but to highlight both shared characteristics and some
different patterns within categories. After much experimentation, we
identified three types of publishing agent, two who make the initial
decision and arrangements to publish, and a third category used by both
types of primary publishers for publishing arrangements. The first
category, book publishing entities, was defined as entities (or
individuals functioning as entities) who make initial decisions to make
books from multiple authors publicly available. The second category,
authors as publishers, was defined as authors themselves making the
initial decision to publish their own work. The third category was
defined as groups that assist publishers of both types with a
combination of publishing roles. This group was labeled “channels to
market,” following increasingly common usage among sites studied.
Categories were then subdivided, again along common characteristics. The
intention is not to make a rigid classification scheme, but to highlight
distinctions in a systematic way.

 Table I: Categories of Emerging  Publishers

Our descriptions of these categories in the text below follow roughly
the same pattern: a label and definition that attempts to capture
defining feature of each category; a description of common
characteristics; and then a brief discussion of a handful of examples
that illustrate either characteristic or distinctive features within a
category. Tables accompanying each discussion show the publishers in
each category. At the end of the descriptions of categories, we bring
together some observations about shifts in book publication practices
resulting from the analysis of the sample across categories.

Category I: book publishing entities:

This category comprises entities who make the initial decisions for
making multiple copies of books from multiple authors publicly
available. Most of these entities appear to be commercial, for-profit
companies.

It is useful to think of these publishers in two groups: (I.1) those
whose primary production of books is print and who then may make
decisions to distribute electronically; and (I-2) those whose primary
production of books is electronic and who then may make decisions to
distribute in print POD format; 

Publishers of Born-Print E-Books: The key characteristic highlighted by
this category is the electronic offering of books that first appeared in
print. Our sample includes fifteen print publishers with substantial
electronic distribution announced on their sites, by no means all that
exist but enough of a variety to show some common characteristics and
some different arrangements. As with born-print e-journals, born print
e-books bring with them all the standard value-added services of a print
publisher; they are simply distributed electronically. Format of
distribution and availability, along with related changes in discovery
mechanisms, are features distinguishing this category of electronic
publisher. In other respects, they follow commercial print publishers
publishing practices, including the acquisition and preparation of
manuscripts and the compensation of authors. Having said that, it is
highly likely that the pressures and competition of the emerging
publishers discussed below will over time change more print publishing
practices, as it is clearly influencing distribution and marketing now.

Simon and Schuster E-Books serves as an example for this category:  
HYPERLINK "http://www.simonsays.com/content/index.cfm?pid=523087&tab=6" 
http://www.simonsays.com/content/index.cfm?pid=523087&tab=6 . It is a
section of the Simon and Shuster website; it shows covers, blurbs, and
publication information, and available formats. At present, Simon and
Schuster e-books are downloadable in Adobe, Microsoft and Palm e-book
formats. eHarlequin.com eBook Boutique,   HYPERLINK
"http://ebooks.eharlequin.com"  http://ebooks.eharlequin.com , and
ePenquin,   HYPERLINK "http://www.penguin.co.uk/" 
http://www.penguin.co.uk/ , follow a similar pattern.

Several other models can be seen within this group. Norton eBooks.com,
http://www.nortonebooks.com/welcome.asp , offers two options for
electronic books: reading for a year online, purchased through Norton,
or downloading through   HYPERLINK "http://powells.com/" \t "_blank" 
Powells.com , a vendor of e-books in Adobe, Microsoft and Palm as well
as new and used traditional print books.  Cambridge University Press has
a site, Cambridge eBookstore, which serves as a catalog of Cambridge
University Press eBook offerings. Purchase and download of e-books is
handled through a distributor, eBooks.com. Hachette Book Group USA,  for
book publishers owned by Hachette,   HYPERLINK
"http://www.hachettebookgroupusa.com/" 
http://www.hachettebookgroupusa.com/ , serves as a “union catalog”
for its publishers. A “Where to Buy” link has extensive lists of
booksellers’ websites, audio book vendors and online retailers.

Table II provides a list of publishers of born-print e-books from our
sample.

Table II:  Publishers of Born-Print E-Books

Cambridge University Press eBookstore
http://www.cambridge.org/ebookstore 

Del Rey online http://www.randomhouse.com/delrey/ebooks 

eHarlequin.com eBook Botique http://ebooks.eharlequin.com 

ePenguin http://tinyurl.com/2h92o3 

Franklin.com http://www.franklin.com/about/profile.asp 

Hachette Book Group, USA http://www.hachettebookgroupusa.com

The Hindu eBooks http://www.thehinduebooks.com 

Imagine eBooks http://imagine-ebooks.com 

MTB Europe http://www.mtbeurope.info/books/ebooks.htm

Mythic Island Press   HYPERLINK "http://www.mythicisland.com" 
http://www.mythicisland.com  

NortonEbooks.com http://www.nortonebooks.com/welcome.asp 

Simon & Schuster
http://www.simonsays.com/content/index.cfm?pid=523087&tab=6 

Tanner Ritchie Publishing http://www.tannerritchie.com 

Taylor & Francis eBookstore   HYPERLINK
"http://www.ebookstore.tandf.co.uk/html/index.asp" 
http://www.ebookstore.tandf.co.uk/html/index.asp 

White Wolf http://www.white-wolf.com



Publishers of Born-Digital E-Books: This category features publishers of
electronic books that have not been preceded by print books, in other
words, born-digital e-books. We found over 90 examples of publishers
that fit this definition. In general, many patterns and practices of
these publishers resemble those of print publishers. These publishers
make editorial decisions in determining which manuscripts to select,
either from open submission or by invitation; they do not charge authors
any fees for publishing; they have contracts specifying royalties and
rights; they provide the typical value-added services of print
publishers including arranging for the publishing infrastructure,
financial underwriting, quality control editorial and design services,
and marketing through their website, acting like an online bookstore or
catalog. 

Publishers in this category distributed multiple copies of original work
made publicly available for the first time primarily through a variety
of electronic means, in a variety of formats for viewing on the
consumer’s computer or on a variety of viewing devices, with a variety
of controls over use. A brief discussion of e-book formats, reading
devices and digital rights management (DRM) is necessary here, but will
inevitably be out of date quickly, since the volatile and rapidly
changing market is conditioned by multiple business arrangements among
publishers, channels to market, and device manufacturers. An industry
standard has yet to emerge, and some argue that the difficulty of
choosing formats and actually downloading to devices, rather than an
aversion to reading on screens or a predilection for the print book as
an object, has prevented an explosion of consumer preference for
electronic over print. In December 2005, Michael Hyatt, CEO and
publisher of Thomas Nelson Publishers, in a blog posting titled “The
Death of the Traditional Book,” popularized the now oft-repeated
phrase, “one device away” from a digital book revolution. Some have
suggested that Amazon’s Kindle, discussed below, is, if not the one
device that will revolutionize digital books, at least a harbinger of
that device. 

The overview of e-book formats and devices from Fictionwise (discussed
below under the category of channels to market,
http://www.fictionwise.com/help/help.htm), is reproduced below as an
indicator of the variety of formats and devices now available:

Sony Reader (Sony Reader PRS-500 and PRS-505 [.lrf]) 

Kindle (Kindle [.mobi]) 

Personal Computers (Microsoft Reader [.lit], Adobe Acrobat [.pdf],
Mobipocket [.prc]) 

Palm OS Handhelds (Palm Doc [.pdb], iSilo [-is.pdb], Mobipocket) 

Pocket PC Handhelds (Microsoft Reader [.lit], Mobipocket [.prc]) 

Win CE Handhelds (Palm Doc [.pdb], Mobipocket [.prc]) 

Rocket/Reb1100 Devices (rocket files only [.rb]) 

Franklin eBookMan (Mobipocket, eBookMan files [.fub]) 

Hiebook (Hiebook [.kml]) 

Symbian OS Organizers and Smartphones (Mobipocket [.prc]) 

Other Devices (many can read Palm Doc)

Fictionwise describes their electronic offerings as either multi-format
or secure format The key difference here is encryption or digital rights
management. The Fictionwise discussion of this difference ((  HYPERLINK
"http://www.fictionwise.com/help/ebook-formats-FAQ.htm#difference)" 
http://www.fictionwise.com/help/ebook-formats-FAQ.htm#difference) .) is
an excellent introduction to devices, formats and digital rights
management, and their FAQ offers some insight into the business
decisions that shape the conditions of availability.

Many of these publishers also offered POD print versions, either at
their discretion depending on sales, or less frequently, at the
author’s choice. It is common for these publishers to use third
parties for both manufacture and simultaneous distribution of print
copies. Most books have ISBN numbers. In general, most of these
publishers do not pay advances but royalty percentages could be larger
than print percentages, keeping in mind that costs per copy was often
less than print.

Although many publishing practices of these emerging publishers are
similar to patterns from commercial print publishing, it is important to
recognize ways in which these emerging publishers are pushing the
traditional boundaries of publishing established in the print world.
Content is one of the most obvious differences. Fiction, and
particularly romance and other genre fiction, dominated our sample,
although non-fiction was available. Imprints, or series with specific
characteristics, are frequently used to direct niche audiences to their
work. The categorical lists which comprise the primary subject finding
tool for all categories of publishers show some categories that arguably
have not been well represented across print publishing, such as erotica,
dark fantasy, and others.

Lower entry costs for these publishers, compared to traditional print
publishing, may account for the flourishing of niche publishing,
publishers and imprints within publishers that are targeted to specific,
and frequently non-mainstream, audiences. 

Double Dragon Publishing,   HYPERLINK
"http://www.double-dragon-ebooks.com/index.php" 
http://www.double-dragon-ebooks.com/index.php , is an example chosen for
this category. Founded in 2001, it is primarily an e-book publisher,
although it chooses some titles for POD print distribution through
lulu.com, especially in large print versions. It provides 30% royalties
paid on a 6-month cycle; it buys electronic rights and copyright is
retained by author or institution. It does not charge fees to authors.
According to their website, 90% of their sales come from Science
Fiction, Fantasy, Horror and Speculative Fiction.” In 2004, they
opened a romance line. Services provided to authors include editing
services, cover and banner design, free copies for use in promotion, and
an authors-only forum. In addition to a long list of genre fiction, they
have more than 10 titles in the non-fiction category and also in the
self-help category. They provide e-books in the following formats:
Rocket-eBook, Hiebook, Adobe PDF, MS-Reader, Mobipocket, iSilo, Franklin
eBookMan, and Palm Doc, and the website assures readers that they will
keep up with new technologies.

New Concepts Publishing,   HYPERLINK
"http://www.newconceptspublishing.com/authorfaqs.htm" 
http://www.newconceptspublishing.com/authorfaqs.htm , another example,
was the first totally electronic romance publishing house. Like most
other examples in this category, NCP assigns ISNB numbers, pays
royalties (30%-40%), provides cover art, and buys exclusive electronic
rights for a specified amount of time. NCP decides, based on interest
and sales, whether a title will be printed as a POD or trade paperback.
E-books are provided in RTF, HTML, MS Reader, MobiPocket, and PDF.

Writer’s Exchange E-Publishing differs from the two examples above in
that authors have the option of paying set-up print fees and having the
book appear in print as well as electronically. Writer’s Exchange
publishes e-books which they distribute through their online store,
Reader’s Eden. They also distribute electronic books by other authors.

Awe-Struck E-Books, http://www.awe-struck.net/, publishes genre fiction
and provides an example of niche publishing with their Ennoble imprint,
claiming to be unique in featuring heroes and heroines with
disabilities.

Table III provides an incomplete list of publishers of born-digital
e-books in our sample. Please email authors for complete list.

Table III: Publishers of Born-Digital E-Books

Alt-X Ebooks http://www.altx.com/ebooks/altx_frame.html

Amber Quill Press (Also Amber Heat and Amber Allure imprints)
http://www.amberquill.com

Amira Press http://www.amirapress.com 

Aphrodite's Apples http://www.aphroditesapples.com 

Arch eBooks http://www.archebooks.com 

Artemis Press http://www.artemispress.com/html/e-bookstore.html

Asylett Press http://www.asylett.com 

Atlantic Bridge *includes nonfiction   HYPERLINK
"http://www.atlanticbridge.net"  http://www.atlanticbridge.net 

Awe-struck ebooks http://www.awe-struck.net 

Baen Books http://www.baen.com

BellaOnline http://www.bellaonline.com/ebooks 

Belgrave House http://www.belgravehouse.com 

Best Buy Ebooks (only two authors, Print through lulu)
http://store.buy-best-ebooks.com 

Books for a Buck http://www.booksforabuck.com 

Books Unbound http://www.booksunbound.com

BookShaker *nonfiction only http://www.bookshaker.com/index.php 

Bosun Books http://www.cmonline.com/boson

Bowbridge Publishing http://www.bowbridgepublishing.com 

Carnal Desires Publishing http://www.carnaldesirespublishing.com 

Champagne Books http://www.champagnebooks.com 

Changeling Press Erotic Fiction http://www.changelingpress.com 

Chippewa Publishing LLC http://www.chippewapublishing.com 

Cobblestone Press http://www.cobblestone-press.com 

Computer Classics http://www.computer-classics.com 

Connexions *nonfiction   HYPERLINK "http://cnx.org/lenses/cnxorg/books"
http://cnx.org/lenses/cnxorg/books  

Creative Guy Publishing http://www.creativeguypublishing.com 

Cybereditions *nonfiction   HYPERLINK "http://cybereditions.com/"
http://cybereditions.com  

Dark Eden Press http://www.darkedenpress.com 

Derlinger's Publishers *includes nonfiction http://www.thebookden.com

DiscoverABook.com http://www.discoverabook.com 

DiskUs Publishing http://www.diskuspublishing.com

DLSIJ Press *includes nonfiction http://dlsijpress.com

Double Dragon Publishing http://www.double-dragon-ebooks.com

Dpdotcom.com http://www.dpdotcom.com 

Dragonfly Publishing http://www.dragonflypubs.com 

Drollerie Press http://www.drolleriepress.com 

Eastgate http://www.eastgate.com 

Ebooksonthe.net http://www.ebooksonthe.net 

Ebooks on Disk http://www.ebooksondisk.com/index.php 

Ebooksonthe.net *also sells previously published  books
http://www.ebooksonthe.net 

Incomplete list. Please email authors for complete list.

Category II: author as publisher:  

The second category highlights the author acting as publisher:  the
person who makes the initial decisions and arrangements to make multiple
copies available for public distribution. Digital technologies have
opened many new avenues for authors to create books and make them
publicly available, and authors are using them in great numbers. To
provide an overview of the burgeoning world of authors as publishers, we
have organized these efforts in three sub-categories. These categories,
even more than the ones introduced previously, are an oversimplification
of the great variety that exists in these efforts, but they have the
virtue of bringing some order to an examination of this phenomenon. The
three categories examined here are authors using fee-based commercial
services, authors using automated websites designed for uploading books,
and authors providing their own web infrastructure for making their work
available, and sometimes sharing their space with other authors.

Authors using fee-based publishing services

Adams and Barker point out that authors arranging for the publishing of
their own work, often with the assistance of patronage, has a long
history. In the twentieth century, author-financed publishing carried
the pejorative title of vanity publishing, with the implied assumption
that if authors were any good, they would not have to finance the
publication of their own works. Authors who arranged for the manufacture
of their own printed books faced major obstacles in distributing them.
In the pre-Internet print book world, distribution of books was in the
hands of a few wholesalers, who supplied retailers, libraries and
schools. Amazon pioneered the “channel to market” approach on the
Internet, providing for the discovery, distribution and sales of print
titles, soon expanded to media and other commodities, and thus breaking
up the distribution bottleneck. 

In early January, 2008, the Associated Press distributed an article by
Candace Choi, “Got a Manuscript? Publishing Now a Snap,”
highlighting the skyrocketing use by authors of fee-based commercial
publishing services. Our searching identified over fifty of these
services, of which Lulu.com, Amazon’s CreateSpace, and Blurb.com were
featured by Choi. The basic idea behind these services is that authors
can purchase publishing infrastructure, manufacturing, distribution and
marketing services previously provided for free by print publishers for
their selected authors, shifting both the decision to publish and the
financial burden to the author, but giving them opportunities to reach
audiences previously dominated by commercial companies. While the main
thrust of most services is to provide print books, many provide
electronic distribution as well. Two examples of fee-based publishing
services will be discussed: iUniverse and Amazon’s CreateSpace.

 iUniverse is a useful example to describe briefly because they have
organized their services into packages, ranging from under $400 to under
$1400, with add-ons in all categories. The most inexpensive option is
most like traditional vanity publishing of the past, providing the
author with professionally manufactured POD print copies for family and
friends, with the added limited distribution mechanism of availability
through the iUniverse book store. Increasingly expensive options provide
more professional quality and services, and increasingly wide retail
availability through channels to market, such as Barnes and Noble.com,
Amazon and many others. The high-end services provide the essentials of
commercial print publishing, including marketing efforts such as the
distribution of review copies. 

Amazon’s CreateSpace calls itself “on demand” publishing. They
manufacture and sell physical objects, including POD books, audio books,
audio CDs, video CDs and other products one at a time, as ordered. The
price is set by the author and royalties are paid to the author as they
are generated by sales. The author or creator is entirely responsible
for the content which is uploaded to CreateSpace for production.
CreateSpace products are sold via Amazon.

While theoretically the consumer can identify a self-published book by
recognizing the publisher, the increasing number of these services, plus
the increasing mix on channel to market sites of commercial publishers,
traditionally printed books, and emerging publishers of POD books and
electronic books of many varieties means that in practice, the
distinction between commercial publication and author-subsidized
publication is increasingly blurred. 

Table IV provides a list of the fee-based publishing services in our
sample.

Table IV: Fee-Based Publishing Services

Antony Rowe Ltd.   HYPERLINK "http://www.antonyrowe.co.uk/"
http://www.antonyrowe.co.uk   

AuthorHouse   HYPERLINK "http://www.authorhouse.com/"
http://www.authorhouse.com  

Authors Online   HYPERLINK "http://www.authorsonline.co.uk/"
http://www.authorsonline.co.uk  

Aventine Press   HYPERLINK "http://www.aventinepress.com/"
http://www.aventinepress.com  

Blitz Print   HYPERLINK
"http://www.blitzprint.com/index.htm?aim=c01k002g"
http://www.blitzprint.com/index.htm?aim=c01k002g  

Booklocker http://www.booklocker.com 

Bookstand Publishing   HYPERLINK "http://www.ebookstand.com/"
http://www.ebookstand.com  

Booksurge http://www.booksurge.com 

CafePress http://www.cafepress.com/cp/info/sell/products/books 

Cheap eBooks *eBook POD http://www.cheapebookshop.com 

CreateSpace

Dog Ear Publishing   HYPERLINK
"http://www.dogearpublishing.net/getstarted.aspx"
http://www.dogearpublishing.net/getstarted.aspx  

Ebookomatic (operates more like a POD but produces ebooks only)
http://www.ebookomatic.com

EbooksLib *also multilingual, also distributor http://www.ebookslib.com 

Equilibrium Books   HYPERLINK "http://www.equilibriumbooks.com/"
http://www.equilibriumbooks.com  

First Choice Books   HYPERLINK "http://www.firstchoicebooks.ca/"
http://www.firstchoicebooks.ca  

Foremost Press   HYPERLINK "http://www.foremostpress.com/authors"
http://www.foremostpress.com/authors  

Fultus Publishing   HYPERLINK "http://www.fultus.com/"
http://www.fultus.com  

GASLight Publishing (traditional and subsidy pub)
http://gaslightpublishing.net 

GLB Literary Corner *includes nonfiction http://www.glbpubs.com

Golden Pillar Publishing   HYPERLINK
"http://www.goldenpillarpublishing.com/"
http://www.goldenpillarpublishing.com  

Ilumina Press   HYPERLINK "http://www.llumina.com/"
http://www.llumina.com  

Infinity Publishing   HYPERLINK "http://www.infinitypublishing.com/"
http://www.infinitypublishing.com  

Inkwater Press   HYPERLINK "http://www.inkwaterpress.com/"
http://www.inkwaterpress.com  

Instabook Publisher   HYPERLINK
"http://www.instabookpublisher.com/files/faq.htm"
http://www.instabookpublisher.com/files/faq.htm  

iUniverse http://www.iuniverse.com

Ka-Blam   HYPERLINK "http://www.ka-blam.com/" http://www.ka-blam.com  

Keystone Digital Press   HYPERLINK
"http://www.greenepublicationsinc.com/"
http://www.greenepublicationsinc.com  

Lightning Source   HYPERLINK "https://www.lightningsource.com/"
https://www.lightningsource.com  

Lulu.com http://www.lulu.com

Net Publications Inc.   HYPERLINK
"http://www.netpub.net/newservices/pubserv.asp"
http://www.netpub.net/newservices/pubserv.asp  

Outskirts Press   HYPERLINK "http://www.outskirtspress.com/"
http://www.outskirtspress.com  

Page Free Publishing   HYPERLINK "http://www.pagefreepublishing.com/"
http://www.pagefreepublishing.com  

Pleasant World – Christian Print on Demand Self Publishing   HYPERLINK
"http://www.pleasantword.com/Default.asp"
http://www.pleasantword.com/Default.asp  

Poseidon Books   HYPERLINK "http://www.poseidonbooks.com/"
http://www.poseidonbooks.com  

Private Ice Publications   HYPERLINK "http://www.skatefic.com" 
http://www.skatefic.com  

Publish America   HYPERLINK "http://publishamerica.com/"
http://publishamerica.com  

Publishers Row *fee based epub http://www.publishersrow.com 

Star Publish, LLC http://starpublish.com 

Tate Publishing   HYPERLINK "http://www.tatepublishing.com/"
http://www.tatepublishing.com  

Trafford Publishing   HYPERLINK "http://www.trafford.com/"
http://www.trafford.com  

U-Publish   HYPERLINK "http://www.u-publish.com/testbook.htm"
http://www.u-publish.com/testbook.htm  

Universal Publishers   HYPERLINK "http://www.universal-publishers.com/"
http://www.universal-publishers.com  

Unlimited Publishing   HYPERLINK "http://www.unlimitedpublishing.com/"
http://www.unlimitedpublishing.com  

Virtual Bookworm http://www.virtualbookworm.com 

Wheatmark   HYPERLINK "http://www.wheatmark.com/"
http://www.wheatmark.com  

Wing Span Press   HYPERLINK "http://www.wingspanpress.com/"
http://www.wingspanpress.com  

Writers Print Shop   HYPERLINK
"http://www.writersservices.com/wps/index.htm"
http://www.writersservices.com/wps/index.htm  

Writersworld   HYPERLINK "http://writersworld.co.uk/"
http://writersworld.co.uk  

Xargol *Hebrew and English   HYPERLINK
"http://www.xargol.com/index.php?cat=2&name=o_fiction" 
http://www.xargol.com/index.php?cat=2&name=o_fiction  

xLibris   HYPERLINK "http://www2.xlibris.com/pubservices/index.asp"
http://www2.xlibris.com/pubservices/index.asp 

Xulon Press   HYPERLINK "http://www.xulonpress.com/"
http://www.xulonpress.com  



Authors using automated websites to upload books

This category illustrates automated sites that exist solely to provide
mechanics for authors to upload and share their work, free for the
author and free for the reader. Our sample includes sixteen of these
sites. Mechanics, conditions, registration, and membership all differ.
Although sites vary, many have a high proportione of uncompleted or
abandoned work. Four examples will be highlighted: FictionCentral.net,
NaNoWriMo, Writing.com and Buried.com.

FictionCentral.net,   HYPERLINK
"http://www.fictioncentral.net/index.php" 
http://www.fictioncentral.net/index.php , describes itself as a “place
to write and read original fiction stories.” Authors need to register;
readers are encouraged to register and are requested to leave a review
of what they have read. Works can be posted chapter by chapter, and a
notation indicates when it is completed. The site administrators have
articulated rules for writing and reviewing, including a system of
ratings and warnings, including the requirement to rate material as 12+
for people over 12, and the notation of SLASH for material including
single-sex pairings, and courtesy rules such as no rudeness or swearing.


NaNoWriMo,   HYPERLINK "http://www.nanowrimo.org/" 
http://www.nanowrimo.org/ , is an engagingly original attempt to
encourage people to jump in and write a novel. In November, registrants
have one month to complete a 50,000 word novel. The NaNoWriMo website
says “It’s all about quantity not quality.” Unlike many other
sites to upload work, the author’s work on NaNoWriMo work remains
private unless the author posts excerpts or shares with others. At the
end of the month, an author’s word count can be verified and if it
exceeds 50,000, the author is listed as a winner.

Writing.com, http://www.writing.com/, describes itself as “the online
community for writers and readers of all interests and skill levels.”
It requires registration, in which the registrant provides a username
that will be used as his/her online identity, and required personal
information for the site administrators. Many features include space for
authors’ writing profiles and many interactive community venues.

Buried.com is an example of a site containing content around a theme, in
this case, “everything that is horror…,” and includes mechanisms
for authors to upload their own writing, again in this case horror
fiction.

Table V lists the automated publishing websites in our sample.

Table V: Automated Publishing Websites

ABC Tales   HYPERLINK "http://www.abctales.com"  http://www.abctales.com
 

Afterglare   HYPERLINK "http://afterglare.com/browse.php?type=titles" 
http://afterglare.com/browse.php?type=titles   

Badosa   HYPERLINK "http://www.badosa.com"  http://www.badosa.com  

eStories *German, English, Spanish, Dutch, French, Italian, Portuguese  
HYPERLINK "http://www.e-stories.de"  http://www.e-stories.de   

Fanstory.com   HYPERLINK "http://www.fanstory.com" 
http://www.fanstory.com    

FictionCentral   HYPERLINK "http://www.fictioncentral.net" 
http://www.fictioncentral.net   

Fiction Press   HYPERLINK "http://www.fictionpress.com" 
http://www.fictionpress.com  

FicWad   HYPERLINK "http://www.ficwad.com"  http://www.ficwad.com  

NaNoWriMo   HYPERLINK "http://www.nanowrimo.org/" 
http://www.nanowrimo.org/  

NoviceWriters   HYPERLINK "http://www.novicewriters.net/index.html" 
http://www.novicewriters.net/index.html   

Shur’tugal   HYPERLINK
"http://fanfiction.shurtugal.com/categories.php?catid=12" 
http://fanfiction.shurtugal.com/categories.php?catid=12    

Slash Cotillion   HYPERLINK "http://cotillion.slashcity.org" 
http://cotillion.slashcity.org    

UseNet (Google Groups)   HYPERLINK "http://groups.google.com" 
http://groups.google.com     

Writing.com   HYPERLINK "http://www.writing.com"  http://www.writing.com
   

Buried.com   HYPERLINK "http://www.buried.com/features/novels.shtml" 
http://www.buried.com/features/novels.shtml  

Cosmos Magazine Fiction Serials   HYPERLINK
"http://www.cosmosmagazine.com/fiction/online/serials"
http://www.cosmosmagazine.com/fiction/online/serials 

Authors creating their own infrastructure to publish their work

The relative ease of website construction has enabled numerous authors
to create sites as venues for their own work. Some sites exist solely
for the author’s content, with some or all items free to consumers,
and some sites exist primarily for the author’s work but accept works
from other writers, again with variation in fee or free. Since a great
deal of variety exists here, those interested should explore the lists
of sites created and controlled by authors in Table VI.

Table VI: Websites Created and Controlled by Authors

Single-author only

Anisky’s Abode   HYPERLINK
"http://www.geocities.com/melsstories/index.html" 
http://www.geocities.com/melsstories/index.html    

Back in School: A Love Story   HYPERLINK
"http://www.alovestory.net/92.html"  http://www.alovestory.net/92.html  


Backpacking on Little Money 	  HYPERLINK
"http://backpackingonlittlemoney.wordpress.com" 
http://backpackingonlittlemoney.wordpress.com    

Caring for God’s Laptop   HYPERLINK
"http://www.important.ca/godslaptop"  http://www.important.ca/godslaptop
  

Cheek.org   HYPERLINK "http://www.cheek.org/fiction/index.htm" 
http://www.cheek.org/fiction/index.htm    

The Circle of Ceridwen   HYPERLINK
"http://octavia.net/books/booklist.html" 
http://octavia.net/books/booklist.html  

Coyote   HYPERLINK "http://www.hauntedhousedressing.com/coyote.htm" 
http://www.hauntedhousedressing.com/coyote.htm  

Dark Icon   HYPERLINK "http://www.darkicon.com/Library" 
http://www.darkicon.com/Library   

Darkfin    HYPERLINK "http://www.darkfin.com/main.html" 
http://www.darkfin.com/main.html 

Diary of a Heretic   HYPERLINK "http://www.diaryofaheretic.blogs.com" 
http://www.diaryofaheretic.blogs.com   

D. S. Bauden Original Fiction 	  HYPERLINK
"http://www.dsbauden.com/original_fiction.shtml" 
http://www.dsbauden.com/original_fiction.shtml   

Fiction by Junkfood Monkey 	  HYPERLINK
"http://www.junkfoodmonkey.pwp.blueyonder.co.uk/Fics/ficindex.html" 
http://www.junkfoodmonkey.pwp.blueyonder.co.uk/Fics/ficindex.html   

Fields of Night   HYPERLINK "http://users.california.com/~sarapeyton" 
http://users.california.com/~sarapeyton  

From in the Shadows   HYPERLINK "http://fromintheshadows.blogspot.com" 
http://fromintheshadows.blogspot.com    

Furry Magic   HYPERLINK "http://www.furrymagic.org/disclaimer.htm" 
http://www.furrymagic.org/disclaimer.htm    

Hopcott ebooks http:// hopcott.net

If He Should Lose His Own Soul   HYPERLINK
"http://www.fables.co.uk/grownups.htm" 
http://www.fables.co.uk/grownups.htm  

Jackee’s Corner   HYPERLINK "http://fiction.jackeescorner.com" 
http://fiction.jackeescorner.com    

Kuroiyusei Original Fiction   HYPERLINK
"http://www.kuroiyousei.net/Ofiction.htm" 
http://www.kuroiyousei.net/Ofiction.htm  l  

Lady Jaida original fiction   HYPERLINK
"http://ladyjaida.livejournal.com/tag/original+fiction" 
http://ladyjaida.livejournal.com/tag/original+fiction    

Maximillian Lückenhaus *German   HYPERLINK
"http://www.wahre-kunst.de/Lueckenhaus/m_sfi.html" 
http://www.wahre-kunst.de/Lueckenhaus/m_sfi.html    

Metropoppyfield   HYPERLINK "http://www.metropoppyfield.com/buy.html" 
http://www.metropoppyfield.com/buy.html   

Moments of Existence   HYPERLINK
"http://www.freewebs.com/moments_of_existence/home.html" 
http://www.freewebs.com/moments_of_existence/home.html  

Mortal Ghost   HYPERLINK "http://mortalghost.blogspot.com" 
http://mortalghost.blogspot.com    

Nate Simpson   HYPERLINK "http://www.natesimpson.com/writing/#Novels" 
http://www.natesimpson.com/writing/#Novels    

Nicole West Original Fiction   HYPERLINK "http://www.nicolewest.net" 
http://www.nicolewest.net    

Paddy – Original Fiction   HYPERLINK
"http://www.originalpain.com/paddy/fiction_paddy.html" 
http://www.originalpain.com/paddy/fiction_paddy.html    

Prose Dreams   HYPERLINK "http://www.prosedreams.net" 
http://www.prosedreams.net   

The Relic Triangle   HYPERLINK "http://www.relictriangle.com" 
http://www.relictriangle.com    

Richard A. Bartle Original Fiction   HYPERLINK
"http://www.mud.co.uk/richard/fiction.htm" 
http://www.mud.co.uk/richard/fiction.htm  

Salamanders   HYPERLINK "http://home.earthlink.net/~salamanders/" 
http://home.earthlink.net/~salamanders/   

ScribeScribbles   HYPERLINK
"http://www.angelfire.com/grrl/scribescribbles/mainmenu.htm" 
http://www.angelfire.com/grrl/scribescribbles/mainmenu.htm    

Setisia   HYPERLINK "http://www.freeonlinereading.com" 
http://www.freeonlinereading.com    

Starving Writer   HYPERLINK "http://www.starvingwriter.com" 
http://www.starvingwriter.com    

The Talespinner   HYPERLINK "http://www.angelfire.com/home/talespinner" 
http://www.angelfire.com/home/talespinner   

The Wonderful World of Bradley Stoke   HYPERLINK
"http://bradleystoke.0catch.com"  http://bradleystoke.0catch.com  

Xenacast Original Fiction   HYPERLINK
"http://www.xenacast.com/xc/originalfiction.htm" 
http://www.xenacast.com/xc/originalfiction.htm   

Zvi’s Palm Jewish Fiction Page   HYPERLINK
"http://home.att.net/~fiddlerzvi/PalmLit.html" 
http://home.att.net/~fiddlerzvi/PalmLit.html   

Single Authors and Sharing: 

B.L. Miller’s Site   HYPERLINK "http://blmiller.net" 
http://blmiller.net   

Free Novels Online   HYPERLINK "http://starry.com/novel/authors.htm" 
http://starry.com/novel/authors.htm  

Shoujo-Ai Canada   HYPERLINK
"http://www.katandnekomanga.ca/writing/shoujo-ai.htm" 
http://www.katandnekomanga.ca/writing/shoujo-ai.htm    

A Room of Her Own: A Dynamic Anthology of Lesbian Fiction   HYPERLINK
"http://blmiller.net/room/index.html" 
http://blmiller.net/room/index.html  

Aphelion Webzine   HYPERLINK "http://www.aphelion-webzine.com" 
http://www.aphelion-webzine.com   

The Cobweb’s Short Stories   HYPERLINK
"http://www.angelfire.com/ego/thecobwebs/stories.htm" 
http://www.angelfire.com/ego/thecobwebs/stories.htm  

Dark Lethe   HYPERLINK "http://reactivewriting.com/dark-lethe" 
http://reactivewriting.com/dark-lethe   

Elfwood   HYPERLINK "http://www.elfwood.com/libr/entrance.html" 
http://www.elfwood.com/libr/entrance.html   

Free the Writer   HYPERLINK "http://www.freethewriter.com/Archives.html"
 http://www.freethewriter.com/Archives.html   

Ideaomancer   HYPERLINK "http://www.ideomancer.com/main/ideoMain.htm" 
http://www.ideomancer.com/main/ideoMain.htm   

Iyinka’s Original Fiction





Category III: channels to market: third parties who acquire rights to
manufacture, distribute and sell print or electronic books 

Channels to market, as mentioned in the definition of categories, is the
term increasingly used to represent the combination of manufacture,
distribution, discovery and sales mechanisms that is flourishing on the
Internet. In the pre-Internet print book world, distribution of print
was tightly controlled by a few book wholesalers, who supplied titles
from multiple publishers to sellers and institutions, such as schools
and libraries. Discovery of titles was accomplished primarily through
publishers advertising and marketing, reviews, compendia such as Books
in Print, library catalogs and browsing bookstore shelves. Amazon
pioneered the “channels to market” concept of providing a mechanism
for consumers to find and order print titles from multiple publishers,
extending to used as well as new books and into other media, including
electronic books. “Channels to market sites,” contract with
publishers and sometimes publishing services to sell print and
electronic books on their sites in specific formats, readable on
specific devices.

Initially, we had classified channels to market as a secondary type of
commercial publishing entity, along with primary born-print and
born-digital publishers of electronic books. However, toward the end of
our analysis, we put them in their own category because of the
increasing tendency of both commercial publishers and authors who use
publishing services to be combined in channels to market. Not all
channel to market sites include books from publishing services, but
Amazon as one of the largest channels to market companies does, and for
numerous other publishing services, it is a fee-based alternative
authors can choose. As a result, channels to market are increasingly
including titles from a mix of publishing sources. In other words,
authors who publish their own work can be included in some of the most
used channels to market.

Twenty-seven “channel to market” sites were identified in our
sample. Several examples have been chosen for short descriptions:
eBooks, Fictionwise, NetLibrary and Overdrive, and Mobipocket and Kindle
Store (both Amazon companies), and LightningSource. 

eBook.com calls itself “the digital bookstore.” It sells electronic
copies of print titles and also born-digital titles. It contracts with
publishers to buy a non-exclusive Internet right to digitally store,
reproduce and transmit titles; royalties are paid to the author through
the publisher. e-Books distributes books in Adobe PDF and encrypts books
using Adobe Content Server. 

Fictionwise, an e-book and audio-book publisher   HYPERLINK
"http://www.fictionwise.com/AuthorInfo.htm" 
http://www.fictionwise.com/AuthorInfo.htm  mentioned earlier, is
interesting because in addition to contracting with publishers, it will
contract directly with authors who have more than 10 published print
books. It offers books in unencrypted formats and in Adobe, Microsoft
and Mobipocket Secure (i.e. encrypted) formats. 

NetLibrary and Overdrive are examples of companies that do not sell
primarily to consumers but to third parties. NetLibrary is the eContent
division of OCLC. When accessing NetLibrary from a member library
system, the NetLibrary site shows the titles owned by the member.
Overdrive targets multiple third parties, including libraries, schools,
retailers, and enterprises and tailors the product it sells to each
market. Overdrive also hosts the Digital Media Locator,   HYPERLINK
"http://www.ebooklocator.com/"  http://www.ebooklocator.com/ , which
locates libraries that have contracted with Overdrive to provide patrons
with free downloads of specific titles. The Locator is a strategic
alliance with OCLC,  utilizing Worldcat.

Mobi-Pocket (since 2005 an Amazon company) and Amazon are examples of
channel to market sites that have their own branded devices but also act
as channels for content for other devices. Amazon has recently
introduced the Kindle, which has many of the features Hyatt mentioned as
necessary for the “one device” that would spark consumer interest in
digital books. Kindle downloads digital content, including books,
newspapers, magazines, and blogs, from the Kindle Store,   HYPERLINK
"http://www.amazon.com/b?ie=UTF8&node=133141011" 
http://www.amazon.com/b?ie=UTF8&node=133141011 , either directly from
your Kindle or from the Amazon site to your Kindle via wireless. The
device itself is the size of a paperback book. Experts and consumers
alike have varying opinions of reading quality. The Fictionwise Kindle
FAQ offers insights into Amazon’s business decisions with regard to
channels other than Amazon for distributing to the Kindle and
illustrates the jockeying for position that now characterizes the e-book
market. At this writing in late January, 2008, the Amazon site lists the
Kindle as temporarily out of stock, but is taking orders.

LightningSource, https://www.lightningsource.com/, describes itself as
“demand-driven book manufacturing and distribution” services. They
provide rapid print-on-demand electronic book fulfillment services for
publishers to retailers and libraries. LightningSource is illustrative
of the emergence of a stream of print POD books from either print or
electronic files supplied by the publisher, as well as electronic books
from digital files provided by the publisher. Interestingly but perhaps
not surprisingly, LightningSource is a subsidiary of Ingram Industries,
owners of Ingram Book Group, one of the largest wholesalers of books in
the United States.  LightningSource does not reveal their criteria for
what and who constitutes a publisher, but it is highly probably that
small niche publishers, even individuals acting as publishers, can enter
the publishing arena through LightningSource. According to the
LightningSource website, they print a million books a month and the
average print run is 1.8 books.

Table VII: Channel to Market Sites

Fictionwise

ACLS Humanities E-Book   HYPERLINK
"http://www.humanitiesebook.org/intro.html" 
http://www.humanitiesebook.org/intro.html   

Adobe Digital Media Store
http://www.adobe.com/products/digitaleditions/library 

Amazon.com (also distributes born digital ebooks)
http://tinyurl.com/33xrm2

Aneas eBookStore http://www.aneas.net/ebookstore 

Audible.com *audio books http://www.audible.com 

Books on Board http://www.booksonboard.com 

Bookshare.org *ebooks for the visually impaired   HYPERLINK
"http://www.bookshare.org/" http://www.bookshare.org  

Campus eBookstore   HYPERLINK "http://www.campusebookstore.com" 
http://www.campusebookstore.com 

Cartoon eBooks http://www.cartoonebooks.com 

Cyberread http://www.cyberread.com 

Diesel Ebooks http://www.diesel-ebooks.com 

eBook Mall http://www.ebookmall.com  

ebooks.com http://www.ebooks.com 

eBooks from Tess http://www.tessebooks.com/index.php?cPath=25_10 

EbooksLib *also multilingual, also POD   HYPERLINK
"http://www.ebookslib.com"  http://www.ebookslib.com 

eFollett.com http://ebooks.efollett.com 

eLibrary http://e-library.net 

eReadable.com http://www.ereadable.com 

eReader.com http://www.ereader.com 

MemoWare PDA Bookstore http://www.pdabookstore.com 

Mobipocket   HYPERLINK "http://www.mobipocket.com" 
http://www.mobipocket.com 

NetLibrary http://company.netlibrary.com/AboutUs.aspx

Numilog eBooks http://www.numilogebooks.com 

Powell's Books http://www.powells.com/ebookstore/ebooks.html 

TecKnoQuest   HYPERLINK "http://www.tecknoquest.com" 
http://www.tecknoquest.com 

OverDrive   HYPERLINK "http://www.overdrive.com/" 
http://www.overdrive.com/  





OBSERVATIONS ABOUT SHIFTS IN BOOK PUBLISHING PRACTICES IN THE AGE OF
NETWORKING

A number of observations can be made about emerging shifts in publishing
practices by looking across the categories analyzed above. Many of these
observations are not new to this paper, but they have arisen here from
empirical examination of a large number of instances, and therefore they
provide some evidence toward validation of these shifts.

Formats

While it is startlingly clear that the appearance of books in electronic
format, either born-print or born-digital, and indeed the burgeoning
number of new born-digital publishers, is a major phenomenon occurring
on the Internet, focusing only on electronic books masks the reality
that re-formatting goes in numerous directions, certainly from print to
various electronic forms, but also to audio books, and from digital to
print, enabled by POD. 

The growing quality and popularity of POD, and its growing transparent
use by publishers, either directly or through services like
LightningSource, and channels to market like Amazon, is increasing the
number of print titles available and diluting at least the traditional
notion of the technological origins of a printed book and arguably the
traditional print-publisher based notion of the book itself. The
popularity of POD print copies for authors publishing their work through
publishing services also illustrates that the flow of formats is
complex. Some channels to market offer format as a consumer choice, and
one may speculate that that trend may continue. Commercial channels now
exist for the direct ordering of POD books by libraries, schools and
retailers, although the extent of their use is not clear. The impact of
POD on book publishing is, we believe, in its infancy and will have
possibly as dramatic a change on publishing patterns and practices as
electronic books are having now.

Shifts in publishing roles

Our theoretical model arose out of notion that component roles of
publishing have shifted over historical time from the rise of the
western book and has directed our attention to dimensions of these
shifts now occurring in the technological, economic and socio-cultural
environment of the Internet. A central result of using the amended
Adams/Barker definition of a publisher was a clearer understanding of
the extent to which authors can act, and are acting, as their own
publishers, and making available a wide variety of books, from products
that can not be distinguished from the products of traditional
publishers in appearance, and arguably in quality, to incomplete,
informal, and unfinished explorations in writing books. 

Another central recognition for us was the extent to which traditional
publishers’ patterns and roles in manufacturer, distribution and sales
are changing. The rise of channel to market services which offer
remanufacture, reformatting, multiple-format distribution directly to
customers or through third parties, and new marketing approaches through
interaction with authors and readers, while not eliminating
publisher’s decision-making certainly tends toward uncoupling or
expanding functions that were once directly controlled by publishers.

Standards of publishing practice

Andrew Keen (2007), author of Cult of the Amateur: How the Internet Is
Killing Our Culture, is just one of many voices who are concerned about
the loosening of standards in publication and public discourse.
Increasingly, the fact of publication is not a promise to the reader
that the book has been vetted by the writing and editing professional
elite who have dominated print publication, although many publishing
services either offer or recommend the services of fee-based publishing
professionals. The emergence of niche publishing, especially in areas
that have not been well represented in mainstream publishing, either
because of small market size or some form of stigmatization in
mainstream society, can also be seen as a loosening of the gate keeping
role of mainstream publishing in determining the body of book content
available to the public. Not everyone decries this increasing inclusion
of previously excluded content, both in substance and style, but the
effects on society are certainly being vigorously debated. 

Costs

Many changes are occurring in the cost structure of book publishing,
which this study only hints at. It seems highly likely that arguably
lower entry costs for publication of electronic books foster the
expansion of electronic publishers that seems to be occurring. We have
heard some evidence that the number of new print book publishers is
growing, due in large part to lower entry costs through POD services,
but that needs confirming. Certainly the cost of distribution and
reaching markets is being redistributed, not only in electronic
publication but in traditional print publishing, as marketing support of
publishers of all kinds shifts. 

We have not seen a definitive study of the costs to the consumer of
electronic books; the received wisdom is that costs of electronic books
are lower, but that needs systematic documentation. Although this study
uncovered numerous examples of authors who are distributing their work
for free, the motivations are not clearly understood; surely readership
and recognition is in the mix, but the extent to which authors see
subsidized publication and free distribution as a path to recognition by
a traditional print publisher is uncertain. Certainly well publicized
examples exist, but how frequently they occur and how they affect the
motivation for an author to self publish is, in our minds, still
unclear.

Discovery, readership and reception and survival

In this arena, there are even more unanswered questions than in the
areas above. In The Long Tail, Chris Anderson has extensively documented
the shift from scarce resources in all media to abundance and the
presence of many niche products and markets, and he has suggested that
in an environment of abundance and small niche markets, the reader’s
ability to discover titles of potential interest to them is crucial
(Anderson, 2006).

Channels to market play an important role in discovery, primarily
through the creation of genre lists and search strategies. Increasingly,
commercial publishers, authors, channel sites and niche interest sites
of many varieties are experimenting with social forms of book discovery:
reviews, recommendations, blogs, tagging, and other ways of sharing with
like-minded people. In the romance arena, for example, reviews on
popular sites like Coffee Time Romance or Romance Junkies cover print
and electronic books in niche markets as well as mainstream ones.

An obvious question to ask in view of the increasingly abundant supply
of books is whether they are finding readers. Anderson’s argument, in
terms of economics, is that a large number of small purchases, in the
long tail, can be economically viable. Perhaps implied in that assertion
is some restructuring or shifting of economic models of publishers and
channels to market. Another question begging for hard data is how much
electronic books, from whatever publishing source, are being purchased
or borrowed, and read.

Survival of electronic, and indeed POD books, is also a issue that
raises more questions than answers, as in all areas of digital
preservation. John B. Thompson (2004) documents the struggles of
publishers to shift from the mindset that their chief asset is a
published book in a warehouse to understanding their assets as
electronic files saved and available in reformatable condition. And the
debates around the preservation of e-journals in an environment where
access has shifted from ownership to licensing under restricted
conditions can be extended to electronic books, as can the on-going
conversations of the long-term viability of today’s electronic
formats.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS

This study is our initial look at shifts in publishing practices in the
age of the Internet and raises many more questions than it answers. Each
of the observations above, and others, needs to be probed in greater
detail. Data-driven studies of all sorts will be useful in documenting
the emerging dimensions of shifts in book publishing in the 21st
century.

REFERENCES

Adams, T. R., & Barker, N. (2001). A new model for the study of the
book. In N. Barker (Ed.). A Potencie of Life: Books in society (pp.
5-43). London: British Library and Oak Knoll Press. First published in
1993 by the British Library.

Anderson, C. (2006). The Long Tail. Hyperion.

Choi, C. (2007). Got a manuscript? Publishing now a snap. Associated
Press. Jan 2.

Hyatt, M. (2005) The Death of the traditional book. Working Smart.  
HYPERLINK "http://www.michaelhyatt.com/workingsmart" 
http://www.michaelhyatt.com/workingsmart . Dec 11.

Keen, A. Cult of the Amateur: How the Internet is Killing Culture. 2006.
Doubleday.

Thompson, J.B., (2005). Books in the Digital Age. Cambridge UK, Polity
Press.



 PAGE   

Category I: Book Publishing Entities:  Entities (or individuals
functioning as entities) who arrange to make books from multiple authors
available electronically

I.1  Publishers of born-print books providing electronic distribution 
(print to digital)

I.2 Publishers of born-electronic books, some providing POD print
distribution (digital to print)

Category II: Author as Publisher: authors themselves making the initial
decision to publish their own work

II.1 Using publishing services

II.2 Using automated publishing websites

II.3 Using author-created and controlled website infrastructure

Category III: Channels to Market: Third-parties assisting publishers of
both types with a variety of publishing functions.

