an exploration
exploration of
the life
life cycle
cycle of
of escience
escience collaboratory
collaboratory data
jillian c
alberto pepe
matthew s
christine l
center for
for embedded
embedded dept
dept of
of information
information studies
studies dept
dept of
of information
information studies
dept of
of information
information studies
networked sensing
graduate school
school of
graduate school
school of
of education
education graduate
graduate school
school of
of education
education information
information studies
studies ucla
information studies
studies ucla
studies ucla
edu borgmangseis
the success
success of
of escience
escience research
research depends
depends not
not only
only upon
upon effective
collaboration between
between scientists
scientists and
and technologists
technologists but
but also
also upon
the active
active involvement
involvement of
of information
information scientists
archivists rarely
receive scientific
scientific data
data until
until findings
findings are
are published
published by
by which
which time
important information
information about
about their
their origins
origins context
context and
provenance may
may be
be lost
research reported
reported here
here addresses
addresses the
lifecycles of
of data
data from
from ecological
ecological research
research with
with embedded
networked sensing
sensing technologies
a better
better understanding
understanding of
of these
processes will
will enable
enable information
information scientists
scientists to
to participate
participate in
earlier stages
stages of
of the
the life
life cycle
cycle and
and to
to improve
improve curation
curation of
of these
types of
of scientific
scientific data
evidence from
from our
our interview
interview study
study and
field research
research yields
yields a
a nine
nine lifecycle
lifecycle phases
phases and
and three
three types
types of
lifecycle depending
depending on
on the
the research
research goal
findings include
highlighting the
the impact
impact of
of collaboration
collaboration on
on the
the research
research processes
and potential
potential phases
phases during
during which
which the
the integrity
integrity of
of the
the captured
data is
is compromised
cultural information
information systems
systems information
information infrastructure
development information
information management
management preserving
preserving digital
the success
success of
of escience
escience research
research depends
depends upon
upon effective
collaboration between
between scientists
scientists and
and technologists
partners often
must learn
learn how
how to
to produce
produce data
data that
that are
are meaningful
meaningful to
to participants
from multiple
multiple disciplines
many decisions
decisions are
are made
made about
about data
data at
each stage
stage in
in its
its life
life cycle
curation of
of these
these data
data and
and their
their value
for reuse
reuse depends
depends heavily
heavily on
on how
how much
much is
is known
known about
about their
origins derivation
derivation and
and provenance
archivists typically
typically receive
receive scientific
scientific data
data only
only after
after the
the findings
of a
a study
study are
are published
published or
or after
after a
a researcher
researcher retires
neither of
these archival
archival outcomes
outcomes provides
provides access
access to
to scientific
scientific data
data in
in a
timely manner
more importantly
importantly by
by the
the time
time that
that archivists
receive data
data much
much of
of the
the information
information necessary
necessary for
for future
copyright and
and disclaimer
disclaimer information
the copyright
copyright of
of this
this document
document remains
remains with
with the
the authors
authors andor
andor their
by submitting
submitting their
their papers
papers to
to the
the ischools
ischools conference
web site
site the
the authors
authors hereby
hereby grant
grant a
a nonexclusive
nonexclusive license
license for
for the
ischools to
to post
post and
and disseminate
disseminate their
their papers
papers on
on its
its web
web site
site and
and any
other electronic
electronic media
contact the
the authors
authors directly
directly for
for any
any use
use outside
of downloading
downloading and
and referencing
referencing this
this paper
neither the
the ischools
ischools nor
nor any
of its
its associated
associated universities
universities endorse
endorse this
this work
the authors
authors are
are solely
responsible for
for their
their papers
papers content
our thanks
thanks to
to the
the association
association for
computing machinery
machinery for
for permission
permission to
to adapt
adapt and
and use
use their
their template
template for
the ischools
ischools conference
interpretation may
may have
have been
been lost
shifting the
the practices
practices of
archiving such
such as
as appraisal
appraisal curation
curation and
and tracking
tracking provenance
into earlier
earlier stages
stages of
of a
a given
given materials
materials life
life cycle
cycle can
can increase
increase the
likelihood of
of capturing
capturing reliable
reliable valid
valid and
and interpretable
interpretable data
and thus
thus improve
improve both
both short
short and
and longterm
longterm access
access and
to determine
determine how
how early
early these
these archiving
archiving processes
processes might
might begin
begin it
is necessary
necessary to
to identify
identify the
the life
life cycle
cycle of
of a
a given
given type
type of
of data
escience partners
partners often
often have
have different
different responsibilities
responsibilities at
at each
stage of
of a
a life
life cycle
individual researchers
researchers may
may be
be insufficiently
aware of
of how
how others
others have
have acted
acted upon
upon the
the data
data or
or how
how others
others may
use or
or interpret
interpret the
the data
data further
further down
down the
the line
making the
the entire
life cycle
cycle of
of data
data more
more transparent
transparent and
and selfdocumenting
selfdocumenting has
has the
potential to
to simplify
simplify data
data capture
capture management
management interpretation
interpretation and
curation for
for all
all parties
parties involved
some stages
stages can
can be
augmented by
by technical
technical means
means such
such as
as automated
automated tools
tools to
identify potential
potential instrumentation
instrumentation errors
errors as
as they
they occur
stages can
can be
be made
made more
more transparent
transparent by
by identifying
identifying and
documenting scholarly
scholarly practices
practices associated
associated with
with the
the data
the life
life cycle
cycle of
of business
business and
and government
government documents
documents is
characterized by
by each
each stage
stage being
being handled
handled by
by a
a different
different party
the life
life cycle
cycle of
of data
data from
from little
little science
science that
that is
is science
performed by
by an
an individual
individual or
or small
small research
research group
group is
characterized by
by all
all of
of the
the phases
phases being
being handled
handled by
by one
one or
or a
a few
persons with
with similar
similar domain
domain knowledge
knowledge and
and training
the life
cycle of
of data
data from
from big
big science
science that
that is
is science
science performed
performed by
by a
large number
number of
of researchers
researchers such
such as
as highenergy
highenergy physics
physics is
characterized by
by many
many researchers
researchers participating
participating in
in each
each stage
stage of
the life
life cycle
these researchers
researchers all
all have
have similar
similar domain
knowledge and
and training
in the
the research
research reported
reported here
here researchers
from multiple
multiple disciplines
disciplines play
play complementary
complementary and
and sometimes
conflicting roles
roles in
in data
data handling
in keeping
keeping with
with the
the scientific
scientific data
data research
research agenda
agenda for
for the
the next
decade set
set by
by the
the warwick
warwick workshop
workshop our
our goals
goals are
are to
develop a
a more
more detailed
detailed data
data models
models for
for each
each domain
domain including
intradomain and
and interdomain
interdomain commonalities
commonalities b
b automatic
processes for
for data
data and
and metadata
metadata capture
capture and
and c
c consistent
methods of
of data
data description
description in
in this
this scientific
scientific and
and technical
our exploration
exploration of
of the
the life
life cycle
cycle of
of scientific
scientific data
identifies the
the stakes
stakes and
and stakeholders
stakeholders at
at each
each phase
phase to
to develop
develop a
digital curation
curation infrastructure
infrastructure that
that will
will support
support the
the use
use reuse
reuse access
access and
and interpretation
interpretation of
of ecological
ecological sensing
sensing data
in this
context we
we need
need to
to understand
understand the
the processes
processes that
that lead
lead to
to the
creation analysis
analysis and
and publishing
publishing of
of said
said data
data for
for metadata
capture and
and when
when major
major changes
changes occur
occur to
to data
data so
so that
that we
we can
build appropriate
appropriate provenance
provenance tracking
tracking measures
objects leave
leave no
no physical
physical residue
residue that
that can
can be
be referenced
referenced later
later too
often useful
useful information
information is
is discarded
discarded before
before being
being properly
assessed for
for archival
archival value
research reported
reported here
here is
is affiliated
affiliated with
with the
the center
center for
for embedded
networked sensing
sensing cens
cens a
a national
national science
science foundation
science and
and technology
technology center
center established
established in
cens supports
supports multidisciplinary
collaborations among
among faculty
faculty students
students and
and staff
staff of
of five
five partner
universities across
across disciplines
disciplines ranging
ranging from
from computer
computer science
science to
the centers
centers goals
goals are
are to
to develop
develop and
and implement
wireless sensing
sensing systems
systems and
and to
to apply
apply this
this technology
technology to
to address
questions in
in four
four scientific
scientific areas
areas habitat
habitat ecology
ecology marine
microbiology environmental
environmental contaminant
contaminant transport
transport and
application of
of this
this technology
technology already
already has
has been
shown to
to reveal
reveal patterns
patterns and
and phenomena
phenomena that
that were
were not
not previously
our data
data management
management research
research group
group has
has been
been part
part of
of cens
since its
its inception
while few
few scientific
scientific data
data were
were generated
generated in
in the
early years
years we
we were
were planting
planting the
the seeds
seeds of
of archival
archival practice
practice and
once data
data captured
captured by
by cens
cens instrumentation
became relevant
relevant to
to our
our application
application scientists
scientists we
we took
took a
a more
active role
role in
in building
building the
the necessary
necessary infrastructure
infrastructure for
for longterm
our initial
initial research
research focused
focused on
on defining
defining what
what were
were data
in this
this environment
now that
that we
we understand
understand better
better what
what are
are data
to whom
whom and
and when
when we
we are
are addressing
addressing larger
larger data
data life
life cycle
cycle issues
deployment scenario
an example
example of
of a
a cens
cens embedded
embedded networked
networked sensing
sensing system
deployment will
will provide
provide context
context for
for the
the life
life cycle
cycle of
of cens
cens data
cens researchers
researchers utilize
utilize several
several deployment
deployment models
along with
static deployments
deployments typical
typical of
of observatories
observatories such
such as
as neon
neon or
geon cens
cens researchers
researchers regularly
regularly go
go on
on shortterm
deployments or
or campaigns
campaigns where
where sensing
sensing systems
systems are
deployed in
in the
the field
field for
for a
a few
few days
among the
the benefits
benefits of
of this
approach for
for exploratory
exploratory research
research are
are compatibility
compatibility with
with the
the data
collection practices
practices of
of application
application science
science researchers
researchers most
most are
are in
biology or
or environmental
environmental sciences
sciences the
the ability
ability to
to field
field test
delicate and
and expensive
expensive experimental
experimental equipment
equipment and
and the
opportunity for
for science
science and
and engineering
engineering researchers
researchers to
to work
together in
in the
the field
field to
to troubleshoot
troubleshoot technical
technical problems
problems and
improve the
the overall
overall quality
quality of
of data
an example
example of
of a
a cens
cens deployment
deployment is
is the
the study
study of
of biological
processes associated
associated with
with harmful
harmful algal
algal blooms
in designing
designing a
deployment the
the application
application science
science researchers
researchers biologists
biologists in
in this
example identify
identify a
a viable
viable research
research site
site in
in this
this case
case a
a lake
lake known
for summer
summer blooms
available background
background information
information about
about the
lake includes
includes peak
peak months
months for
for algae
algae a
a topology
topology of
of the
the lakebed
local species
species of
of phyto
phyto and
and zooplankton
zooplankton and
and nutrient
nutrient presence
presence and
the engineering
engineering researchers
researchers determine
determine which
equipment are
are most
most appropriate
appropriate for
for capturing
capturing the
the data
data desired
desired by
the scientists
prior to
to going
going in
in the
the field
field the
the team
team calibrates
calibrates equipment
equipment in
in the
laboratory based
based on
on knowledge
knowledge of
of the
the types
types of
of organisms
organisms likely
likely to
be present
present in
in the
the water
because of
of the
the natural
natural variation
variation of
of water
organisms calibrations
calibrations will
will be
be augmented
augmented with
with physical
physical water
samples taken
taken adjacent
adjacent to
to sensors
a wet
wet lab
lab will
will be
be set
set up
up on
site to
to process
process water
water samples
once on
on site
site the
the team
team deploys
sensors in
in the
the lake
lake using
using static
static buoys
buoys that
that house
house a
a power
power source
data logger
logger and
and wireless
wireless communication
communication system
they document
gps coordinates
coordinates of
of each
each buoy
buoy times
times of
of placement
placement and
and serial
numbers of
of each
each sensor
sensor in
in a
a laboratory
laboratory notebook
the data
data collection
collection process
process is
is a
a combination
combination of
of preplanned
activities and
and infield
infield decisions
because the
the aquatic
aquatic phenomena
of interest
interest vary
vary on
on diel
diel or
or hour
hour cycle
cycle scientists
scientists take
take data
data for
for a
full hours
once sensors
sensors begin
begin to
to report
report data
data researchers
researchers begin
observing interesting
interesting phenomena
phenomena such
such as
as that
that the
the water
water flows
more quickly
quickly at
at one
one end
end of
of the
the lake
lake and
and that
that the
the water
water is
is greener
and at
at a
a higher
higher temperature
temperature where
where a
a rock
rock slows
slows the
the flow
based on
such information
information the
the team
team may
may change
change the
the data
data collection
strategy altering
altering plans
plans for
for sensor
sensor placement
placement or
or for
for hand
hand collection
of water
water samples
at the
the end
end of
of a
a deployment
deployment equipment
equipment is
removed and
and returned
returned to
to the
the lab
water samples
samples are
are processed
processed for
organism identification
identification and
and concentration
concentration and
and for
for nutrient
sensor data
data are
are compared
compared to
to the
the inlab
inlab and
and infield
calibration curves
curves and
and to
to other
other trusted
trusted data
data sources
only then
then are
water sample
sample data
data and
and sensor
sensor data
data integrated
integrated for
for analysis
data analysis
analysis is
is complete
complete and
and papers
papers are
are published
published numerical
numerical data
are burned
burned to
to dvds
dvds and
and shelved
shelved with
with other
other data
any remaining
water samples
samples are
are put
put in
in cold
cold storage
cens data
data users
users and
and uses
data from
from cens
cens dynamic
dynamic field
field deployments
deployments can
can be
be grouped
grouped into
four types
sensors are
are used
used to
to capture
capture numerical
numerical data
data on
on the
scientific application
application the
the performance
performance of
of the
the sensors
themselves and
and proprioceptive
proprioceptive data
data to
to use
use in
in navigation
navigation for
robotic sensor
sensor technology
the fourth
fourth category
category is
is handcollected
data for
for the
the scientific
scientific application
application such
such as
as the
the water
water samples
described above
above in
in the
the deployment
deployment scenario
each of
of the
the four
four data
types has
has multiple
multiple variables
variables from
from temperature
temperature and
and barometric
pressure to
to roll
roll pitch
pitch and
and yaw
yaw to
to packets
packets sent
sent and
and received
data serve
serve only
only one
one purpose
purpose but
but most
most serve
serve multiple
multiple purposes
purposes for
instance the
the scientific
scientific data
data collected
collected can
can be
be used
used to
to identify
identify sensor
when we
we asked
asked our
our subjects
subjects about
about capturing
capturing using
using sharing
sharing and
preserving data
data from
from deployments
deployments and
and about
about capabilities
capabilities they
desired in
in archives
archives to
to support
support their
their data
data the
the primary
primary interest
interest was
in the
the scientific
scientific data
computer science
science and
and engineering
researchers were
were as
as concerned
concerned about
about the
the quality
quality and
and accessibility
of scientific
scientific data
data as
as were
were the
the domain
domain scientists
conversely the
computer science
science and
and engineering
engineering researchers
researchers took
took little
little interest
in maintaining
maintaining access
access to
to sensor
sensor performance
performance data
data or
proprioceptive data
data that
that are
are essential
essential to
to their
their own
own research
forms of
of data
data appear
appear to
to serve
serve transient
transient purposes
purposes for
for these
researchers with
with minimal
minimal archival
archival value
however they
they may
may be
essential for
for reuse
reuse of
of the
the application
application science
science data
data by
by others
our research
research questions
questions address
address the
the initial
initial stages
stages of
of the
the data
data life
cycle in
in which
which data
data are
are captured
captured and
and subsequent
subsequent stages
stages in
in which
the data
data are
are cleaned
cleaned analyzed
analyzed published
published curated
curated and
and made
the interview
interview questions
questions were
were divided
divided into
into four
categories data
data characteristics
characteristics data
data sharing
sharing data
data policy
policy and
and data
this paper
paper reports
reports our
our further
further exploration
exploration of
of the
scientific data
data life
life cycle
cycle based
based on
on responses
responses to
to questions
questions about
data characteristics
characteristics and
and architecture
findings on
on other
other questions
are reported
reported elsewhere
the findings
findings reported
reported here
here are
are drawn
drawn from
from an
an interview
interview study
study of
five environmental
environmental science
science projects
projects and
and subsequent
subsequent field
for each
each project
project we
we interviewed
interviewed a
a complementary
set of
of science
science and
and technology
technology participants
participants including
including faculty
faculty postdoctoral
postdoctoral fellows
fellows graduate
graduate students
students and
and research
research staff
cens is
comprised of
of about
about faculty
faculty and
and other
other researchers
researchers about
student researchers
researchers and
and some
some fulltime
fulltime research
research staff
staff who
who are
affiliated with
with the
the five
five participating
participating universities
our pilot
ethnographic study
study consisted
consisted of
of indepth
indepth interviews
interviews with
with two
participants each
each two
two to
to three
three hours
hours over
over two
two to
to three
three sessions
the intensive
intensive interview
interview study
study consisted
consisted of
of participants
participants working
on the
the five
five ecology
ecology projects
interviews were
were minutes
minutes to
to two
hours in
in length
length averaging
averaging roughly
roughly minutes
the interviews
interviews were
were audiotaped
audiotaped transcribed
transcribed and
and complemented
by the
the interviewers
interviewers memos
memos on
on topics
topics and
and themes
totaled pages
analysis proceeded
proceeded to
to identify
identify emergent
we developed
developed a
a full
full coding
coding process
process using
using nvivo
which was
was used
used to
to test
test and
and refine
refine themes
themes in
in coding
coding of
of subsequent
this study
study used
used the
the methods
methods of
of grounded
grounded theory
theory to
identify themes
themes and
and to
to test
test them
them in
in the
the full
full corpus
corpus of
of interview
transcripts and
and notes
in addition
addition to
to the
the interviews
interviews members
members of
of our
our research
research team
team have
attended numerous
numerous field
field deployments
deployments with
with various
various cens
cens research
participant observation
observation was
was used
used to
to gain
gain entree
entree to
to these
workintensive daylong
daylong to
to weeklong
weeklong data
data collection
collection events
assisting the
the researchers
researchers in
in their
their deployment
deployment of
of equipment
equipment and
data capture
capture we
we were
were able
able to
to discover
discover the
the processes
processes leading
leading up
up to
the deployment
deployment and
and the
the plans
plans for
for use
use of
of the
the data
data captured
user scenarios
scenarios for
for how
how data
data were
were captured
captured processed
processed and
published were
were extracted
extracted from
from the
the interview
interview and
and observational
these scenarios
scenarios were
were used
used to
to construct
construct a
a data
data flow
flow model
including the
the data
data sources
sources level
level of
of derivation
derivation and
and any
any computer
programs or
or scripts
scripts that
that were
were used
used to
to transform
transform the
the data
from the
combined flows
flows we
we were
were able
able to
to extract
extract common
common procedures
procedures and
generalize them
them across
across our
our participants
we then
then verified
verified this
this life
cycle model
model during
during our
our interactions
interactions with
with researchers
researchers after
after the
interviews or
or observations
observations of
of their
their data
data collections
collections efforts
described here
here are
are both
both the
the general
general lifecycle
lifecycle phases
phases and
and the
the three
data lifecycles
lifecycles present
present within
within cens
cens research
initially our
research lead
lead us
us to
to model
model a
a unified
unified data
data life
life cycle
cycle that
that applied
applied to
all of
of cens
cens research
this lifecycle
lifecycle model
model in
in described
described in
in more
detail along
along with
with the
the charge
charge to
to evaluate
evaluate the
the model
model for
generalizability across
across the
the center
center and
and to
to shine
shine alight
alight on
on some
some of
the more
more entangled
entangled phases
phases dcc
in teasing
teasing out
out the
the variation
present in
in two
two of
of the
the phases
phases of
of the
the lifecycle
lifecycle the
the generalization
there was
was a
a clear
clear distinction
distinction between
between what
what happened
happened to
to the
data created
created as
as a
a part
part of
of technology
technology research
research and
and those
those data
created when
when science
science and
and technology
technology researchers
researchers worked
worked together
and these
these were
were both
both different
different from
from the
the data
data created
created by
by scientific
these three
three types
types of
of lifecycle
lifecycle are
are characterized
characterized by
by what
the research
research is
is meant
meant to
to accomplish
accomplish be
be that
that scientific
scientific research
technological research
research or
or development
development of
of technology
technology for
for science
this latter
latter is
is when
when both
both science
science and
and technology
technology researchers
collect data
data in
in the
the field
field with
with the
the technologists
technologists responsible
responsible for
for the
equipment or
or systems
systems being
being tested
tested and
and the
the scientists
scientists responsible
for collecting
collecting other
other data
data to
to make
make the
the sensor
sensor data
data worthwhile
the order
order of
of the
the steps
steps is
is not
not absolute
absolute as
as some
some stages
stages are
iterative while
while others
others may
may occur
occur in
in parallel
for instance
instance phases
appear to
to happen
happen concurrently
concurrently with
with new
new outliers
outliers emerging
only when
when the
the data
data has
has been
been integrated
experiment design
the beginning
beginning of
of the
the data
data life
life cycle
is the
the design
design of
of new
new experiments
cens researchers
design new
new experiments
experiments by
by reusing
reusing data
data from
from prior
calibration and
and setup
before sensors
sensors are
are deployed
they are
are calibrated
calibrated to
to known
known solutions
solutions or
or values
values to
identify the
the offset
offset between
between the
the actual
actual measurement
measurement and
the expected
expected measurement
they are
are calibrated
calibrated again
again infield
infield a
a process
process referred
referred to
to as
as groundtruthing
capture or
or generation
once sensors
sensors have
have been
deployed successfully
successfully in
in the
the field
field researchers
researchers begin
begin to
collect observations
observations of
of physical
physical phenomena
sensor measurements
measurements are
are direct
direct e
temperature wind
speed and
and others
others are
are indirect
indirect e
measure of
fluorescence as
as an
an indicator
indicator of
of chlorophyll
chlorophyll activity
after data
data have
have been
been captured
captured calibration
calibration and
groundtruthing information
information need
need to
to be
be applied
applied to
to the
data to
to normalize
normalize any
any calibration
calibration offsets
offsets from
from the
sensing equipment
few of
of the
the observations
observations and
and samples
collected in
in the
the field
field can
can be
be interpreted
interpreted without
derivation into
into more
more meaningful
meaningful data
data points
typically must
must be
be averaged
averaged into
into composite
composite points
points before
they can
can be
be used
used in
in analysis
researchers are
are looking
looking for
for trends
trends over
over time
and across
across spatial
spatial locations
datasets each
each given
deployment are
are integrated
integrated by
by multiple
multiple researchers
researchers for
multiple reasons
reasons and
and in
in multiple
multiple combinations
researchers use
use statistical
statistical modeling
modeling and
visualization tools
tools that
that vary
vary by
by research
research specialty
specialty and
individual preference
they test
test and
and generate
hypotheses and
and draw
draw conclusions
conclusions about
about data
data obtained
from the
the deployments
data collected
collected during
during embedded
embedded network
sensor deployments
deployments culminate
culminate in
in scholarly
scholarly publications
such as
as journal
journal articles
articles conference
conference papers
papers posters
posters and
technical reports
few if
if any
any of
of the
the cens
cens researchers
researchers interviewed
had data
data preservation
preservation strategies
strategies commensurate
commensurate with
with those
those of
of the
archival community
it is
is more
more accurate
accurate to
to say
say that
that they
they back
back up
their data
general life
life cycle
cycle phases
we have
have identified
identified nine
nine stages
stages that
that appear
appear to
to be
be common
common to
to the
cens deployments
deployments studied
studied the
the researchers
researchers and
and to
to the
the resulting
figure life
life cycle
cycle of
of cens
cens data
three lifecycles
lifecycles model
table three
three lifecycles
lifecycles with
with sample
sample tasks
tasks for
for each
each phase
phase of
of each
each cycle
scientific research
scitech development
tech research
generate hypothesis
hypothesis develop
methods choose
choose equipment
plan sampling
sampling schedule
negotiate researchable
researchable questions
questions choose
equipment and
and personnel
personnel schedule
schedule tasks
generate hypothesis
hypothesis develop
calibrate equipment
equipment collect
ground truth
truth samples
calibrate sensing
sensing systems
systems groundtruthing
prepare model
model data
data or
or algorithm
to be
be used
data capture
hand sampling
sampling observation
processing samples
sensor collection
collection hand
hand sampling
sampling observing
environment tweaking
tweaking systems
systems observing
users checking
checking in
in across
across groups
sensor collection
collection generating
generating from
models creating
creating new
new data
data by
running algorithms
algorithms over
over data
creating models
models from
from data
analysis of
of samples
samples recording
presence and
and frequencyvolume
of organisms
organisms or
or chemicals
comparing to
to environmental
models remove
remove outliers
part i
i tech
debug investigate
investigate error
error reports
retesting pass
pass code
code around
around to
to get
additional opinions
remove sensor
sensor artifacts
artifacts synch
synch time
stamps recalibrate
recalibrate aggregate
aggregate data
data by
variable derive
derive data
data for
for compound
part ii
ii science
sample analysis
analysis recording
recording presence
presence and
frequencyvolume of
of organisms
organisms or
chemicals groundtruthing
groundtruthing based
based on
on hand
samples comparing
comparing to
to environmental
models removing
removing outliers
linear regression
regression of
of variables
captured hypothesis
hypothesis testing
visualization hypothesis
hypothesis testing
comparisons regressions
publish conclusions
conclusions in
in science
journals post
post or
or reposit
reposit data
publish conclusions
conclusions in
in science
science journals
journals and
technical proceedings
proceedings post
post data
publish conclusions
conclusions in
in technical
proceedings post
post data
refrigerate samples
samples numerical
data kept
kept in
in databases
databases printed
for hard
hard copies
copies filed
refrigerate samples
samples numerical
numerical data
data kept
kept in
databases move
move files
files to
to a
a lab
lab server
server or
or local
move files
files to
to a
a lab
lab server
server or
or local
in these
these models
models we
we have
have combined
combined the
the formerly
formerly separate
cleaning integration
integration and
and derivation
derivation phases
phases because
because they
they are
are so
in order
order to
to properly
properly remove
remove outliers
outliers the
the data
data must
must be
derived or
or integrated
integrated thus
thus these
these three
three phases
phases are
are really
really separate
tasks that
that are
are performed
performed iteratively
iteratively until
until the
the data
data is
is clean
clean enough
for analysis
analysis to
to begin
technology research
research has
has the
the luxury
luxury of
of not
not always
always needing
needing to
to go
out into
into the
the field
much of
of their
their research
research involves
involves testing
testing models
or algorithms
algorithms generating
generating data
data from
from these
these and
and evaluating
evaluating the
performance none
none of
of which
which requires
requires fieldwork
at the
the same
same time
the data
data generated
generated in
in the
the lab
lab may
may be
be wildly
wildly different
different from
from those
captured in
in the
the field
field and
and the
the occasional
occasional reality
reality check
check is
is necessary
to maintain
maintain a
a clear
clear heading
when the
the technologists
technologists perform
fieldwork they
they do
do not
not need
need the
the scientists
scientists present
present to
to capture
capture data
that will
will progress
progress their
their research
research because
because their
their test
test subject
subject in
in these
cases are
are the
the equipment
equipment and
and systems
systems themselves
similarly the
scientists do
do not
not need
need to
to bring
bring the
the technologists
technologists along
along for
for their
own data
data collection
collection efforts
efforts unless
unless they
they want
want to
to use
use the
the sensing
many technology
technology research
research cycles
cycles happen
happen between
between infield
deployments just
just as
as many
many infield
infield technology
technology deployments
happen between
between a
a sciencetechnology
sciencetechnology development
development deployment
for scientists
scientists on
on the
the other
other hand
hand the
the frequency
frequency of
of data
data collection
cycle is
is much
much lower
lower with
with most
most cycles
cycles lasting
lasting a
a year
year or
or more
these science
science research
research cycles
cycles carry
carry a
a much
much higher
higher investment
investment for
the data
data collected
the interplay
interplay of
of the
the cycles
cycles are
are negotiated
negotiated based
on time
time available
available and
and need
coordinating larger
larger deployments
deployments to
collect data
data that
that is
is meaningful
meaningful to
to both
both the
the scientists
scientists and
and the
technologists is
is a
a significant
significant investment
investment of
of time
time and
and resources
difficult as
as they
they are
are these
these are
are the
the rare
rare opportunities
opportunities to
to see
see the
users using
using the
the instruments
instruments and
and the
the systems
systems allowing
allowing the
technologists to
to begin
begin the
the next
next iteration
iteration of
of the
the design
comparing these
these three
three data
data lifecycles
lifecycles reveals
reveals the
the affects
affects of
collaboration on
on routine
routine research
research by
by either
either the
the science
science or
technology researchers
the experiment
experiment design
design phase
phase is
is much
different during
during the
the collaborative
collaborative cycle
cycle attempting
attempting to
to offer
significant research
research opportunities
opportunities to
to both
both parties
the data
data capture
phases are
are very
very different
different for
for each
each cycle
cycle during
during the
the science
research cycle
cycle the
the emphasis
emphasis is
is on
on hand
hand collected
collected samples
samples the
collaborative cycle
cycle is
is concerned
concerned more
more with
with the
the capture
capture of
of sensor
data than
than the
the hand
hand sample
sample data
data even
even though
though this
this data
data is
is significant
to the
the science
science researchers
researchers and
and acts
acts as
as a
a ground
ground truth
truth mechanism
for the
the sensor
sensor data
data and
and the
the technology
technology research
research cycles
cycles range
range from
collecting sensor
sensor data
data to
to generating
generating data
data from
from a
a model
cleaning integration
integration and
and derivation
derivation phase
phase is
is similarly
similarly different
across all
all three
three cycles
cycles but
but in
in this
this case
case the
the significant
significant part
part is
is the
way the
the custody
custody of
of the
the data
data is
is no
no longer
longer shared
the technology
researchers must
must first
first make
make sense
sense of
of the
the captured
captured data
data in
in reference
to the
the technology
technology and
and then
then the
the science
science researchers
researchers will
will make
make sense
of them
them in
in reference
reference to
to the
the science
the final
final phase
phase to
to display
divergence is
is the
the publication
publication phase
phase where
where collaboration
collaboration forces
both the
the scientists
scientists and
and the
the technologists
technologists to
to publish
publish in
in one
anothers domains
these publications
publications do
do not
not carry
carry the
the same
weight as
as those
those within
within their
their own
own domain
domain thus
thus disincentivising
these affects
affects caused
caused by
by collaboration
collaboration appear
appear to
to be
be trouble
trouble spots
where the
the future
future value
value of
of the
the data
data is
is compromised
compromised due
due to
variations in
in methods
methods and
and processes
processes across
across collaborating
for instance
instance the
the use
use of
of linear
linear regression
regression for
for data
analysis does
does not
not scale
scale to
to the
the volume
volume of
of sensorcaptured
sensorcaptured data
data thus
scientists must
must rely
rely on
on technologists
technologists for
for new
new methods
methods of
interpreting their
their data
linear regression
regression is
is the
the established
established method
for ecological
ecological data
data analysis
analysis and
and has
has been
been so
so for
for multiple
multiple decades
the science
science researchers
researchers in
in this
this case
case are
are really
really dependent
dependent on
on the
tools being
being built
built for
for them
them to
to be
be as
as trustworthy
trustworthy as
as linear
linear regression
and stand
stand up
up to
to peerreview
another example
example of
of this
this is
is the
variation in
in what
what is
is considered
considered data
data by
by each
each group
group for
for instance
the technology
technology researchers
researchers will
will consider
consider their
their algorithm
algorithm or
or the
script developed
developed to
to be
be data
data whereas
whereas the
the scientists
scientists will
will consider
the hand
hand sample
sample or
or the
the sensor
sensor readings
readings to
to be
be data
this may
may opens
gaps where
where one
one party
party is
is not
not as
as invested
invested in
in the
the overall
overall quality
quality of
of a
specific data
data type
type because
because it
it is
is not
not central
central to
to their
their own
own discipline
actions taken
taken at
at each
each stage
stage of
of the
the life
life cycle
cycle influence
influence how
how the
resulting data
data can
can be
be interpreted
interpreted hence
hence it
it is
is important
important that
that these
stages be
be documented
documented and
and associated
associated with
with the
the resulting
resulting dataset
there is
is a
a cumulative
cumulative effect
effect of
of decisions
decisions made
made at
at each
each stage
stage of
of the
life cycle
for example
example decisions
decisions made
made in
in the
the experimental
design stage
stage determine
determine what
what data
data exist
exist for
for analysis
analysis or
or calibration
decisions are
are essential
essential to
to interpreting
interpreting the
the data
there is
is a
a delicate
balance of
of decision
decision making
making between
between scientific
scientific and
and technology
research partners
conclusions future
future research
the success
success of
of escience
escience depends
depends upon
upon successful
successful collaboration
between application
application scientists
scientists and
and their
their partners
partners in
in computer
science and
and engineering
data resulting
resulting from
from such
such collaborations
is expected
expected to
to be
be extremely
extremely valuable
valuable for
for reuse
reuse by
by others
however the
the value
value of
of data
data for
for reuse
reuse depends
depends upon
upon the
the quality
quality of
those data
data which
which in
in turn
turn depends
depends on
on the
the ability
ability to
to interpret
interpret the
origins provenance
provenance and
and context
context of
of the
the data
surprisingly little
little is
known about
about how
how data
data arises
arises from
from escience
escience collaborations
case study
study of
of ecological
ecological research
research in
in the
the center
center for
for embedded
networked sensing
sensing sheds
sheds light
light on
on the
the various
various life
life cycles
cycles of
escience data
our future
future research
research will
will continue
continue to
to explore
explore and
and refine
refine the
the data
life cycle
cycle identified
identified here
here and
and to
to build
build systems
systems to
to support
support it
order to
to determine
determine how
how generalizable
generalizable this
this threecycle
threecycle model
model is
across the
the various
various research
research groups
groups we
we need
need to
to test
test this
this model
model in
the field
additionally we
we would
would like
like to
to understand
understand the
the role
role of
publication in
in collaboration
collaboration specifically
specifically if
if the
the willingness
willingness to
to coauthor
coauthor is
is skewed
skewed towards
towards either
either the
the science
science or
or technology
researchers by
by exploring
exploring whether
whether scientists
scientists are
are more
more apt
apt to
publish in
in technology
technology papers
papers or
or the
the reverse
given our
our access
access to
the coauthorship
coauthorship data
data from
from this
this population
population answering
answering this
question is
is a
a logical
logical next
next step
we are
are also
also curious
curious about
about the
the role
of decisions
decisions made
made in
in the
the field
field on
on the
the calibration
calibration and
and capture
interplay as
as well
well as
as the
the experiment
experiment and
and design
design interplay
present much
much of
of the
the sensing
sensing technology
technology is
is experimental
experimental but
commercial offtheshelf
offtheshelf sensors
sensors also
also are
are in
in use
questions about
about data
data provenance
provenance will
will evolve
evolve as
as the
the technology
stabilizes and
and the
the scientific
scientific research
research questions
questions broaden
implications for
for ischool
our interest
interest in
in understanding
understanding information
information from
from every
every angle
angle should
lead us
us to
to studying
studying the
the processes
processes and
and methods
methods that
that lead
lead to
to the
creation of
of data
scientific data
data represents
represents the
the entire
entire evidentiary
basis for
for scientific
scientific information
information and
and knowledge
thus without
studying the
the life
life cycle
cycle of
of data
data we
we are
are ignoring
ignoring the
the premise
premise of
scientific information
research such
such as
as this
this cuts
cuts to
to the
the heart
heart of
the disciplinary
disciplinary tributaries
tributaries that
that comprise
comprise ischool
ischool namely
informatics archives
archives and
and digital
digital librarianship
librarianship while
while also
falling under
under science
science technology
technology and
and society
this is
is the
practical application
application of
of learnings
learnings from
from each
each of
of these
these fields
fields and
serves as
as an
an example
example of
of what
what will
will advance
advance ischool
ischool education
education and
research agenda
cens is
is funded
funded by
by national
national science
science foundation
foundation cooperative
agreement ccr
ccr deborah
deborah l
estrin ucla
ucla principal
investigator christine
christine l
borgman is
is a
a coprincipal
coprincipal investigator
censei under
under which
which much
much of
of this
this research
research was
was conducted
conducted is
funded by
by national
national science
science foundation
foundation grant
grant esi
william a
sandoval principal
principal investigator
investigator and
and christine
christine l
borgman coprincipal
coprincipal investigator
alberto pepes
pepes participation
in this
this research
research is
is supported
supported by
by a
a gift
gift from
from the
the microsoft
technical computing
computing initiative
esanu j
et al
selection appraisal
appraisal and
and retention
retention of
digital scientific
scientific data
data highlights
highlights of
of an
erpanetcodata workshop
data science
science journal
beagrie n
digital curation
curation for
for science
science digital
digital libraries
libraries and
international journal
journal of
of digital
digital curation
beagrie n
and d
greenstein a
a strategic
strategic policy
policy framework
for creating
creating and
and preserving
preserving digital
digital collections
arts and
and humanities
humanities data
data service
service london
digital curation
curation and
and preservation
preservation defining
defining the
the research
agenda for
for the
the next
next decade
decade in
in report
report of
of the
the warwick
workshop november
digital curation
centre warwick
warwick uk
lord p
and a
macdonald escience
escience curation
curation reportdata
reportdata curation
curation for
for escience
escience in
in the
the uk
uk an
an audit
audit to
to establish
requirements for
for future
future curation
curation and
and provision
committee for
for the
the support
support of
of research
day m
metadata for
for digital
digital preservation
preservation an
an update
geosciences network
last visited
visited august
national ecological
ecological observatory
observatory network
last visited
october httpneoninc
ni k
et al
sensor network
network data
data fault
fault types
transactions on
on sensor
sensor networks
networks in
in review
wallis j
et al
know thy
thy sensor
sensor trust
trust data
data quality
and data
data integrity
integrity in
in scientific
scientific digital
digital libraries
in th
european conference
conference on
on digital
digital libraries
hungary berlin
berlin springer
borgman c
wallis and
and n
building digital
libraries for
for scientific
scientific data
data an
an exploratory
exploratory study
study of
of data
practices in
in habitat
habitat ecology
in th
th european
european conference
conference on
digital libraries
alicante spain
spain berlin
berlin springer
cs joint
joint conference
conference on
on digital
digital libraries
bc association
association for
for computing
computing machinery
borgman c
wallis and
and n
enyedy little
little science
confronts the
the data
data deluge
deluge habitat
habitat ecology
ecology embedded
embedded sensor
networks and
and digital
digital libraries
international journal
journal on
digital libraries
pepe a
et al
knitting a
a fabric
fabric of
of sensor
sensor data
data and
in information
information processing
processing in
in sensor
sensor networks
cambridge ma
ma association
association for
for computing
mayernik m
wallis and
and c
context to
to content
content the
the cens
cens deployment
deployment center
american society
society for
for information
information science
science technology
milwaukee wi
wi information
information today
wallis j
et al
moving archival
archival practices
practices upstream
upstream an
exploration of
of the
the life
life cycle
cycle of
of ecological
ecological sensing
sensing data
data in
collaborative field
field research
in rd
rd international
international digital
curation conference
washington d
borgman c
et al
drowning in
in data
data digital
digital library
architecture to
to support
support scientists
scientists use
use of
of embedded
embedded sensor
in jcdl
jcdl proceedings
proceedings of
of the
the th
th acmieee
glaser b
and a
strauss the
the discovery
discovery of
of grounded
theory strategies
strategies for
for qualitative
qualitative research
chicago aldine
aldine pub
