approaches to
to semantic
semantic markup
markup for
for natural
natural heritage
heritage literature
hong cui
school of
of information
information resources
resources and
and library
library science
science university
university of
the theme
theme of
of this
this paper
paper is
is the
the application
application of
of automated
automated semantic
semantic markup
techniques on
on natural
natural heritage
heritage literature
literature to
to address
address information
information needs
of taxonomists
two machine
machine learning
learning based
based techniques
techniques supervised
supervised and
unsupervised machine
machine learning
learning are
are discussed
discussed and
and compared
compared on
on a
a real
world corpus
a prototype
prototype application
application that
that supports
supports batch
batch and
and online
modes of
of converting
converting free
free text
text documents
documents to
to xml
xml format
format is
is described
information organization
organization information
information management
management information
information technology
and services
semantic markup
markup natural
natural heritage
heritage literature
literature taxonomic
taxonomic descriptions
biodiversity information
information biodiversity
biodiversity informatics
informatics supervised
supervised machine
learning unsupervised
unsupervised machine
machine learning
learning xml
since over
over two
two hundred
hundred years
years ago
ago the
the work
work has
has started
started to
to systematically
document various
various living
living organisms
organisms their
their habitats
habitats geographic
distribution classification
classification and
and identification
identification keys
current projects
of such
such include
include the
the flora
flora of
of north
north american
american fna
fna and
and the
the flora
flora of
china foc
as a
a result
result a
a wealth
wealth of
of natural
natural heritage
heritage literature
literature has
been produced
however the
the vast
vast majority
majority of
of natural
natural heritage
heritage literature
is still
still in
in print
print format
that in
in electronic
electronic format
format is
is mainly
mainly in
in html
pdf or
or doc
doc formats
formats for
for example
example volumes
volumes of
of fna
fna and
and foc
foc are
are both
both in
print and
and html
html formats
only a
a small
small percentage
percentage of
of such
such information
information is
stored in
in a
a structured
structured digital
digital format
format such
such as
as relational
relational database
database or
or xml
to construct
construct the
the global
global commons
commons of
of natural
natural heritage
literature as
as envisioned
envisioned by
by the
the biodiversity
biodiversity heritage
heritage library
library an
international collaboration
collaboration among
among major
major natural
natural heritage
heritage institutes
hyperlink httpwww
edu httpwww
edu a
a number
number of
digitization projects
projects are
are being
being planned
planned or
or carried
carried out
out at
at different
related standard
standard organizations
organizations such
such as
as the
the biodiversity
information standards
standards are
are working
working intensively
intensively on
on a
a number
number of
biodiversity information
information contentencoding
contentencoding standards
standards including
including the
structured descriptive
descriptive data
data sdd
sdd an
an xml
xml application
application to
to meet
meet the
immediate needs
needs of
of digitization
digitization projects
for a
a review
review of
of xml
xml schemas
for biodiversity
biodiversity literature
literature see
natural heritage
heritage communities
communities have
have come
come to
to the
the consensus
consensus that
that the
reformatting of
of unstructured
unstructured biodiversity
biodiversity literature
literature especially
taxonomic descriptions
descriptions of
of living
living organisms
organisms into
into a
a machine
machine readable
structured format
format is
is necessary
necessary for
for the
the long
long term
term and
and effective
management of
of the
the large
large body
body of
of literature
this reformatting
reformatting benefits
benefits both
both of
of the
the two
two major
major usages
usages of
of the
information namely
namely organism
organism identification
identification and
and information
information retrieval
for the
the attendees
attendees of
of the
the iconference
iconference structured
structured formats
formats enable
enable more
accurate retrieval
retrieval is
is probably
probably a
a wellaccepted
wellaccepted fact
fact that
that calls
calls for
for no
more elaboration
we should
should nonetheless
nonetheless note
note that
that the
the organism
descriptions in
in a
a good
good structured
structured format
format that
that allows
allows the
the encoding
encoding of
biological characters
characters and
and their
their statesvalues
statesvalues also
also support
support faceted
browsing and
and cross
cross collection
collection i
federated retrieval
the specimen
specimen identification
identification task
task is
is traditionally
traditionally performed
performed by
by using
taxonomic keys
keys which
which are
are decision
decision trees
trees upsidedown
upsidedown trees
trees with
with the
root node
node on
on top
top with
with contrasting
contrasting statements
statements about
about a
a biological
character in
in each
each node
node and
and an
an identification
identification at
at the
the end
end of
of each
each branch
it is
is worth
worth noting
noting that
that research
research has
has shown
shown that
that full
full text
text information
retrieval techniques
techniques are
are not
not effective
effective for
for specimen
specimen identification
identification tasks
the creation
creation of
of a
a good
good taxonomic
taxonomic key
key for
for a
a group
group of
of taxa
taxa relies
relies on
the completeness
completeness of
of the
the descriptions
descriptions and
and exhaustive
exhaustive search
search and
comparison of
of the
the descriptions
descriptions of
of related
related organisms
any taxonomist
taxonomist can
testify that
that neither
neither of
of the
the two
two conditions
conditions is
is supported
supported well
well by
freetext descriptions
descriptions it
it is
is easy
easy for
for an
an author
author to
to leave
leave out
out some
characters it
it is
is tedious
tedious to
to repeat
repeat shared
shared characteristics
characteristics again
again and
again in
in many
many descriptions
descriptions and
and on
on top
top of
of these
these it
it is
is also
also very
timeconsuming to
to search
search for
for missing
missing characters
characters and
and compare
compare many
freetext descriptions
descriptions at
at one
one time
a structured
structured format
format can
can alleviate
these difficulties
difficulties because
because it
it allows
allows an
an information
information system
system to
to remind
remind an
author of
of the
the missing
missing elements
elements and
and to
to autofill
autofill the
the shared
it is
is also
also possible
possible for
for computers
computers to
to shoulder
shoulder some
some work
involved in
in comparing
comparing descriptions
descriptions thanks
thanks to
to the
the structures
structures that
that are
made explicit
explicit to
to computers
computers enabling
enabling more
more meaningful
meaningful comparisons
comparisons element
by element
element rather
rather than
than blind
blind keyword
keyword matching
if the
the descriptions
descriptions are
markedup in
in very
very fine
fine details
details for
for example
example to
to the
the level
level of
of characters
and character
character states
states it
it is
is even
even possible
possible to
to automate
automate many
many aspects
aspects of
the generation
generation of
of taxonomic
taxonomic keys
a sustainable
sustainable way
way to
to transform
transform large
large sets
sets of
of free
free text
text descriptions
descriptions to
structured formats
formats should
should not
not rely
rely on
on grant
grant moneys
moneys and
and graduate
assistants manual
manual labor
automatic semantic
semantic markup
markup techniques
techniques must
must be
explored to
to convert
convert newly
newly digitized
digitized full
full text
text documents
documents into
into a
structured format
format and
and allow
allow taxonomists
taxonomists to
to convert
convert a
a freshly
freshly composed
description into
into the
the structured
structured format
format by
by clicking
clicking a
a button
related research
the majority
majority of
of work
work on
on structuring
structuring taxonomic
taxonomic descriptions
descriptions focuses
focuses on
the paragraphs
paragraphs with
with limited
limited semantics
semantics such
such as
as taxon
taxon names
names and
and ranks
far less
less research
research focused
focused on
on cuepoor
cuepoor yet
semanticrich sections
sections for
for example
example morphological
morphological description
description sections
largely due
due to
to the
the lack
lack of
of consistency
consistency in
in description
description contents
contents as
as shown
by lydon
lydon et
et al
lydon et
et al
al manually
manually compared
compared descriptions
descriptions of
of the
same five
five species
species from
from six
six different
different floras
floras and
and found
found large
large variations
in terms
terms of
of information
information content
content and
and presentation
presentation style
style only
only of
information was
was exactly
exactly the
the same
same over
over of
of information
information was
was from
from a
single flora
flora and
and around
around of
of information
information from
from different
different floras
contradicted with
with each
each other
earlier works
works using
using syntactic
parsing methods
methods to
to extract
extract information
information to
to populate
populate relational
relational databases
or to
to mark
mark up
up plant
plant descriptions
descriptions in
in an
an xml
xml format
format have
have focused
focused on
on a
single collection
syntactic parsing
parsing methods
methods require
require handcraft
handcraft grammar
rules and
and extensive
extensive lexicons
lexicons to
to guide
guide the
the parsing
parsing process
grammar rules
can be
be collectiondependent
collectiondependent therefore
therefore the
the usefulness
usefulness of
of a
a parser
parser for
different collections
collections can
can be
be limited
a specialized
specialized xml
xml editor
editor for
biosystematics literature
literature has
has also
also been
been built
built however
however it
it requires
the users
users to
to come
come up
up with
with regular
regular expression
expression rules
rules to
to mark
mark up
up documents
extracted plant
plant characters
characters from
from descriptions
descriptions of
of five
five species
species taken
from six
six floras
floras using
using a
a handmade
handmade gazetteer
gazetteer as
as a
a lookup
lookup list
list to
to link
extracted terms
terms with
with their
their semantic
semantic labels
it remains
remains to
to be
be seen
seen to
what extent
extent the
the manual
manual knowledge
knowledge engineering
engineering scales
scales with
with larger
larger data
on a
a much
much larger
larger scale
scale took
took a
a supervised
supervised machine
machine learning
approach to
to address
address the
the issues
issues of
of intercollection
intercollection variations
variations and
automatically marked
marked up
up descriptions
descriptions of
of over
over ten
ten thousands
thousands species
species from
three floras
floras down
down to
to sentenceclause
sentenceclause level
by reusing
reusing domain
domain knowledge
learned from
from other
other collections
collections in
in the
the past
past their
their system
system called
called martt
achieved better
better performance
performance on
on a
a new
new collection
collection without
without any
readjustment or
or fine
fine tuning
tuning of
of the
the system
the markedup
markedup taxonomic
descriptions are
are currently
currently available
available for
for public
public access
access at
at hyperlink
two machine
machine learning
learning techniques
the machine
machine learning
learning approach
approach has
has a
a number
number of
of advantages
advantages over
over other
existing approaches
this approach
approach does
does not
not require
require the
the markup
markup or
extraction rules
rules to
to be
be provided
provided to
to the
the system
composing the
the rules
rules by
hand is
is difficult
difficult even
even for
for trained
trained knowledge
knowledge engineers
engineers or
or computer
scientists because
because one
one cannot
cannot easily
easily tell
tell the
the overall
overall effect
effect of
of a
a rule
on a
a large
large collectionit
collectionit may
may work
work very
very well
well with
with a
a small
small portion
portion of
descriptions but
but results
results in
in a
a net
net negative
negative effect
effect if
if applied
applied on
on the
entire collection
if the
the goal
goal is
is to
to equip
equip domain
domain experts
experts in
in this
this case
taxonomists with
with the
the markup
markup tool
tool this
this requirement
requirement is
is simply
simply not
taking advantage
advantage of
of ever
ever increasing
increasing computational
computational power
power the
machine learning
learning approach
approach on
on the
the contrary
contrary strives
strives to
to find
find global
optimum rules
rules automatically
a properly
properly designed
designed learning
learning system
system also
also promotes
promotes portability
portability of
of the
it is
is desirable
desirable for
for a
a system
system to
to be
be able
able to
to process
process different
collections of
of documents
documents of
of the
the same
same or
or similar
similar domain
domain with
with little
little or
no reengineering
a learning
learning system
system that
that learns
learns and
and makes
makes use
use of
of domain
knowledge is
is more
more portable
portable than
than a
a system
system that
that learns
learns presentation
presentation cues
because it
it is
is more
more likely
likely for
for the
the documents
documents to
to share
share domain
domain knowledge
than the
the presentation
presentation styles
styles such
such as
as font
font size
size color
color or
or html
html tags
since a
a machine
machine learning
learning system
system learns
learns markup
markup rules
rules from
from document
collections the
the markup
markup rules
rules are
are always
always up
up to
to date
date and
and reflect
reflect the
characteristics of
of the
the current
current collection
in practice
practice this
this works
better than
than relying
relying on
on handcrafted
handcrafted rules
rules that
that may
may not
not fit
fit the
the current
task well
there are
are two
two main
main types
types of
of inductive
inductive learning
learning techniques
techniques supervised
and unsupervised
unsupervised learning
learning techniques
supervised learning
learning techniques
require training
training examples
examples from
from which
which the
the learning
learning system
system derives
knowledge and
and against
against which
which the
the learning
learning system
system verifies
verifies its
its learning
training examples
examples for
for the
the martt
martt system
system were
were markedup
markedup descriptions
manually prepared
the number
number of
of training
training examples
examples required
required by
by a
a system
varies depending
depending on
on the
the learning
learning algorithm
algorithm and
and the
the heterogeneity
heterogeneity of
of the
data collection
initially the
the performance
performance of
of a
a learning
learning system
increases with
with the
the number
number of
of training
training examples
at a
a certain
certain point
typically before
before accuracy
accuracy it
it typically
typically reaches
reaches a
a performance
when the
the plateau
plateau is
is reached
reached the
the system
system is
is said
said to
to be
be trained
as more
more training
training examples
examples will
will not
not bring
bring in
in any
any performance
performance gain
unsupervised learning
learning techniques
techniques do
do away
away with
with training
training examples
examples they
derive knowledge
knowledge from
from the
the documents
documents themselves
themselves by
by exploring
exploring the
the various
regularities embedded
embedded in
in the
the documents
for either
either technique
technique there
there has
to be
be some
some source
source of
of knowledge
knowledge that
that can
can be
be exploited
exploited and
and the
the learning
algorithm has
has to
to be
be able
able to
to discover
discover something
something that
that is
is previously
unknown to
to it
the supervised
supervised learning
learning algorithm
aforementioned martt
martt system
system is
is a
a supervised
supervised learning
learning system
system involving
two phases
phases the
the training
training phase
phase and
and the
the markup
markup phase
in the
the training
phase the
the algorithm
algorithm learns
learns markup
markup rulesmodels
rulesmodels from
from training
training examples
while in
in the
the markup
markup phase
phase the
the trained
trained algorithm
algorithm uses
uses the
the learned
learned rules
to mark
mark up
up new
new descriptions
the algorithm
algorithm is
is illustrated
illustrated in
in list
details can
can be
be found
found in
in where
where the
the algorithm
algorithm was
was labeled
labeled as
as sccp
the training
training phase
name training
input training
training examples
examples tes
tes xml
xml documents
documents with
with nested
nested elements
output populated
populated learning
learning hierarchy
hierarchy lh
initialize the
the empty
empty lh
lh with
with the
the root
root node
node description
foreach te
te in
in tes
extract elements
elements from
from te
te level
level by
by level
level to
to save
save element
element contents
contents in
in the
corresponding nodes
nodes in
in lh
if a
a node
node does
does not
not exist
exist in
in the
the hierarchy
hierarchy of
of lh
lh create
create a
a new
new sibling
sibling or
child node
node in
in lh
lh to
to accommodate
accommodate the
the new
new element
element at
at the
the desired
desired level
end foreach
foreach node
node in
in lh
createmodelthe element
element contents
contents saved
saved at
at the
the node
end foreach
input element
element contents
contents of
of a
a node
node or
or element
output learned
learned model
ngrams wordlevel
wordlevel unigrams
unigrams grams
grams and
and grams
grams extracted
extracted from
from the
leading words
words of
of element
element contents
foreach ngram
ngram in
in ngrams
support the
the number
number of
of instances
instances of
of the
the element
element containing
containing the
the ngram
the total
total number
number of
of instances
instances of
of the
the element
confidence the
the occurrence
occurrence of
of the
the ngram
ngram in
in the
the element
element the
the total
occurrence of
of the
the ngram
save the
the rule
rule ngram
ngram element
element confidence
confidence support
end foreach
the markup
markup phase
name markup
input lh
lh tobemarked
tobemarked document
document collection
collection c
output markedup
markedup document
document collection
collection c
foreach document
document in
in c
markupdocumentlh document
markedup document
document read
read the
the complete
complete markedup
document off
off the
the lh
end foreach
name markupdocument
input lh
lh tobemarked
tobemarked document
document d
output lh
lh with
with marked
marked up
up segments
segments of
of d
if lh
lh contains
contains one
one leaf
leaf node
node and
and one
one leaf
leaf node
node only
mark up
up d
d with
with the
the name
name of
of the
the leaf
leaf node
save the
the markedup
markedup d
d in
in the
the node
read d
d into
into the
the root
root node
node of
of lh
the root
root node
node marks
marks up
up segments
segments sentencesclauses
sentencesclauses of
of d
d with
with the
the names
of its
its child
child nodes
nodes by
by selecting
selecting the
the rules
rules with
with the
the highest
highest confidence
and support
save markedup
markedup segments
segments in
in the
the node
pass marked
marked segments
segments s
s of
of d
d to
to their
their corresponding
corresponding child
child node
node n
list supervised
supervised learning
learning algorithm
note the
the markupdocument
markupdocument function
function is
is a
a recursive
recursive function
function that
that starts
from the
the root
root node
node of
of lh
lh a
a tree
tree with
with a
a root
root on
on the
the top
top and
and many
many leaf
nodes at
at the
the bottom
bottom and
and ends
ends at
at a
a leaf
leaf node
at each
each call
call the
the function
works on
on a
a successively
successively smaller
smaller part
part of
of the
the lh
lh until
until all
all branches
branches of
of the
tree is
is traversed
traversed and
and all
all leaf
leaf nodes
nodes are
are reached
although the
the training
training and
and markup
markup phases
phases of
of martt
martt were
were automatic
automatic and
required no
no human
human intervention
intervention the
the training
training examples
examples came
came at
at a
a cost
martt used
used close
close to
to taxonomic
taxonomic descriptions
descriptions for
for training
training yet
yet more
examples could
could still
still mean
mean a
a better
better performance
performance as
as a
a performance
performance plateau
was not
not reached
reached with
with that
that many
many training
training examples
even thought
thought it
it was
just a
a small
small fraction
fraction of
of total
total documents
documents processed
processed out
out of
of or
it was
was time
time consuming
consuming and
and errorprone
errorprone to
to prepare
prepare hundreds
hundreds of
descriptions according
according to
to the
the predefined
predefined xml
xml schema
schema hyperlink
on the
the other
hand the
the predefined
predefined xml
xml schema
schema did
did not
not cover
cover all
all organs
organs described
described in
the descriptions
descriptions because
because a
a complete
complete schema
schema can
can be
be created
created only
only after
one reads
reads through
through the
the entire
entire collections
collections of
of documents
documents due
due to
to the
inherent diversity
diversity of
of living
living organisms
organisms and
and authorships
authorships e
authors contributed
contributed to
to flora
flora of
of china
china to
to flora
flora of
of north
north america
all uncovered
uncovered organs
organs were
were marked
marked otherfeatures
features included
included many
many rarely
rarely occurred
occurred organs
organs which
which are
are often
often the
most valuable
valuable information
information for
for specimen
specimen identification
treating them
indistinguishably as
as other
other features
features is
is not
not a
a satisfactory
limited schema
schema coverage
coverage is
is a
a shortcoming
shortcoming shared
shared by
by all
existing systems
systems reviewed
reviewed in
in this
this article
the shortcomings
shortcomings of
of the
the existing
existing automated
automated markup
markup systems
systems for
biodiversity literature
literature prompted
prompted us
us to
to ask
ask this
this research
research question
question to
what extent
extent the
the inherent
inherent textual
textual cues
cues in
in the
the literature
literature can
can be
be exploited
to produce
produce xmlbased
xmlbased markups
markups that
that are
are not
not biased
biased for
for frequent
frequent features
in other
other words
words is
is it
it possible
possible for
for an
an unsupervised
unsupervised learning
learning technique
technique to
achieve comparable
comparable performance
performance as
as the
the supervised
supervised technique
technique to
to what
extent the
the regularities
regularities in
in the
the text
text can
can replace
replace the
the knowledge
knowledge manifested
in the
the training
training examples
the unsupervised
unsupervised learning
learning algorithm
we started
started to
to answer
answer these
these questions
questions by
by investigating
investigating a
a bootstrapping
this markup
markup approach
approach is
is a
a bottomup
bottomup approach
approach established
on the
the literary
literary warrant
warrant principle
it exploits
exploits the
the syntactic
syntactic cues
commonly found
found in
in domain
domain corpora
such cues
cues include
include sentences
sentences typically
start with
with a
a subject
subject the
the subjects
subjects are
are typically
typically nouns
nouns or
or noun
noun phrases
periods are
are used
used to
to end
end a
a sentence
sentence while
while commas
commas or
or semicolons
semicolons are
are used
to set
set off
off clauses
these cues
cues were
were used
used in
in the
the unsupervised
learning algorithm
algorithm that
that marked
marked up
up to
to the
the level
level comparable
comparable to
to that
that of
list shows
shows the
the main
main steps
steps of
of the
the algorithm
name unsupervised
unsupervised learning
learning algorithm
input to
to be
be markedup
markedup documents
documents in
in text
text format
output markedup
markedup documents
documents in
in wellformed
wellformed xml
xml format
use the
the following
following simple
simple heuristic
heuristic rule
rule to
to find
find a
a set
set of
of words
words nouns
used as
as nouns
nouns in
in the
the documents
heuristic rule
rule a
a word
word is
is used
used as
as a
a noun
noun iff
iff the
the documents
documents contain
contain its
singular and
and plural
plural forms
forms but
but no
no verb
verb forms
use english
english grammar
grammar rules
rules to
to distinguish
distinguish plural
plural forms
forms from
from singular
segmentset segment
segment documents
documents into
into sentencesclauses
sentencesclauses i
segments at
the punctuation
punctuation marks
segmentset segments
segments starting
starting with
with a
a plural
plural noun
segmentset segments
segments that
that do
do not
not belong
belong to
to segmentset
foreach segment
segment in
in segmentset
extract the
the word
word after
after the
the first
first plural
plural noun
noun and
and save
save the
the word
word in
end foreach
nouns boundarywords
boundarywords bootstrapnouns
bootstrapnouns boundarywords
boundarywords segmentset
foreach segment
segment in
in segmentset
if the
the segments
segments subject
subject main
main noun
noun can
can be
be identified
tag the
the subject
tag unknown
end if
if the
the segment
segment ends
ends with
with any
any punctuation
punctuation mark
mark but
but a
a period
tag tag
tag block
end if
use tag
tag to
to mark
mark up
up the
the segment
end foreach
name bootstrap
input nouns
nouns boundarywords
boundarywords segmentset
output a
a bigger
bigger set
set of
of nouns
nouns a
a bigger
bigger set
set of
of boundarywords
flagnewdiscovery false
foreach segment
segment in
in segmentsset
generate a
a subject
subject pattern
pattern based
based on
on the
the up
up to
to three
three leading
leading words
example given
given a
a segment
segment sporangiaster
sporangiaster rare
if rare
rare is
is in
boundarywords but
but sporangiaster
sporangiaster is
is in
in neither
neither boundarywords
boundarywords nor
nor nouns
the segments
segments subject
subject pattern
pattern is
is b
end foreach
sort patterns
patterns patterns
patterns with
with fewer
fewer are
are ranked
ranked higher
foreach pattern
pattern in
in patterns
if new
new nouns
nouns or
or boundary
boundary words
words are
are discovered
note depending
depending on
on the
the pattern
the previous
previous example
example pattern
b would
would result
result in
in a
a new
new discovery
discovery sporangiaster
sporangiaster is
is a
a noun
pattern such
such as
as b
b would
would not
not result
result in
in a
a new
new discovery
discovery because
it could
could be
be a
a nbb
nbb a
a nnb
nnb or
or a
a mnb
mnb m
m for
for modifier
flagnewdiscovery true
update nouns
nouns or
or boundarywords
end if
end foreach
while flagnewdiscovery
list the
the unsupervised
unsupervised learning
learning algorithm
the details
details of
of the
the algorithm
algorithm are
are still
still being
being refined
refined but
but the
the main
main idea
is to
to start
start with
with a
a small
small set
set of
of nouns
nouns and
and a
a small
small set
set of
of boundarywords
those are
are learned
learned from
from segmentset
segmentset to
to discover
discover more
more nouns
nouns and
boundarywords using
using the
the basic
basic assumption
assumption subjects
subjects nouns
nouns are
followed by
by boundary
boundary words
the bootstrap
bootstrap function
function runs
runs in
in each
each interaction
interaction it
it tries
tries to
to make
make new
new discoveries
discoveries and
replaces some
some in
in the
the subject
subject patterns
patterns with
with a
a b
b or
or n
until it
it fails
fails to
to make
make any
any new
new discovery
discovery in
in an
an iteration
the learning
process stops
stops there
the unsupervised
unsupervised learning
learning algorithm
algorithm has
has been
been tested
tested on
on a
a small
collection of
of algae
algae descriptions
descriptions descriptions
descriptions two
two modest
collections of
of plant
plant descriptions
descriptions descriptions
descriptions and
and a
a modestly
large collection
collection of
of plant
plant descriptions
descriptions descriptions
performances on
on larger
larger collections
collections were
were better
a later
later section
compares the
the unsupervised
unsupervised and
and supervised
supervised learning
learning algorithm
algorithm on
on the
fna descriptions
the application
we implemented
implemented a
a prototype
prototype of
of an
an application
application that
that supports
supports both
both of
of the
learning techniques
the userfriendliness
userfriendliness of
of the
the application
application lies
lies not
only on
on the
the employment
employment of
of sound
sound interface
interface design
design principles
principles but
but more
importantly on
on the
the reasonable
reasonable division
division of
of the
the job
job between
between domain
domain experts
and the
the computer
the application
application does
does not
not assume
assume the
the user
user has
has any
knowledge engineering
engineering skills
skills such
such as
as crafting
crafting regular
regular expression
patterns for
for markup
markup but
but trusts
trusts the
the user
user has
has the
the ability
ability of
of identifying
misplaced tags
a few
few screenshots
screenshots are
are included
included here
here to
to illustrate
illustrate the
design of
of the
the prototype
the application
application assumes
assumes the
the user
user either
either has
folders of
of documents
documents i
batch processing
processing or
or will
will compose
compose a
description to
to mark
mark up
the first
first screen
screen the
the user
user sees
sees once
once the
application is
is started
started allows
allows the
the user
user to
to either
either run
run a
a learning
algorithm on
on a
a folder
folder of
of documents
documents or
or to
to skip
skip the
the learning
learning step
step and
and go
directly to
to the
the main
main interface
interface if
if the
the user
user wishes
wishes to
to access
access other
functions figure
note for
for supervised
supervised learning
learning the
the user
user needs
needs to
provide training
training examples
the main
main interface
interface has
has functions
functions that
that help
with the
the preparation
preparation of
of training
training examples
examples figure
figure the
the first
first screen
screen allows
if the
the user
user chooses
chooses to
to use
use either
either of
of the
the algorithms
algorithms to
to mark
mark up
up the
collection she
she will
will provide
provide necessary
necessary information
information and
and instruct
instruct the
application to
to learn
learn to
to mark
mark up
since the
the learning
learning and
and markup
process can
can take
take a
a long
long time
time depending
depending on
on the
the size
size of
of the
the collection
the interface
interface informs
informs the
the user
user the
the progress
progress figure
if the
the documents
in the
the job
job folder
folder i
the tobemarked
tobemarked collection
collection already
contain xml
xml tags
tags the
the application
application will
will automatically
automatically assume
assume the
the users
intention is
is to
to test
test the
the performance
performance of
of the
the learning
learning algorithm
it will
compare the
the given
given tags
tags with
with those
those generated
generated by
by the
the computer
computer and
and compute
performance scoresfigure
the performance
performance scores
scores are
are saved
saved in
in a
a file
so the
the user
user can
can compare
compare the
the performances
performances of
of different
different runs
note once
the learning
learning is
is started
started the
the learn
learn to
to mark
mark up
up button
button is
is disabled
but the
the user
user is
is still
still in
in control
control where
where she
she would
would like
like the
the application
application to
impatient user
user may
may cancel
cancel the
the lengthy
lengthy learning
learning progress
progress and
and go
either to
to the
the learning
learning setting
setting screen
screen figure
figure to
to choose
choose a
a different
learning technique
technique or
or to
to the
the main
main interface
interface to
to use
use other
other functions
when the
the learning
learning and
and mark
mark up
up process
process is
is done
done the
the user
user is
is led
led to
to the
main interface
interface where
where she
she can
can verify
verify the
the correctness
correctness of
machinegenerated markup
markup using
using either
either the
the supervised
supervised or
or unsupervised
approach by
by using
using the
the batchmode
batchmode functions
functions figure
figure and
and make
any corrections
corrections by
by invoking
invoking the
the popup
popup schema
schema menu
the application
application maintains
maintains the
the list
list of
of files
files to
to be
be examined
examined so
so the
the next
time the
the application
application starts
starts the
the user
user can
can continue
continue with
with the
the remaining
remaining of
the files
the application
application automatically
automatically records
records any
any errors
errors the
the user
corrects but
but also
also allows
allows the
the user
user to
to add
add any
any error
error manually
manually by
by using
record an
an error
error function
function in
in tools
a module
module will
will be
implemented in
in the
the future
future to
to pass
pass along
along the
the identified
identified errors
errors to
to the
learning algorithms
algorithms so
so the
the algorithms
algorithms can
can revise
revise its
its markup
markup rules
the composingmode
composingmode the
the user
user is
is presented
presented a
a text
text editor
editor window
where she
she can
can compose
compose a
a description
description which
which will
will be
be marked
marked up
up in
in xml
format after
after the
the user
user clicks
clicks on
on the
the mark
mark up
up button
this oneclick
markup relies
relies on
on the
the knowledge
knowledge already
already learned
learned by
by martt
the user
user can
check for
for and
and correct
correct errors
errors in
in the
the composing
composing mode
mode in
in a
a similar
similar manner
as in
in the
the batch
batch mode
figure learning
learning progress
figure the
the main
main interface
as mentioned
mentioned earlier
earlier the
the interface
interface also
also supports
supports the
the preparation
preparation of
training examples
the user
user simply
simply opens
opens a
a list
list of
of examples
examples highlights
certain text
text segments
segments and
and tags
tags the
the segments
segments by
by selecting
selecting appropriate
elements from
from the
the popup
popup schema
schema menu
or the
the user
user can
can use
use the
the documents
markedup by
by the
the unsupervised
unsupervised algorithm
algorithm as
as the
the training
training examples
examples for
for the
supervised algorithm
in short
short the
the application
application supports
supports the
the preparation
preparation of
of training
training examples
two different
different learning
learning techniques
techniques for
for marking
marking up
up documents
documents two
different processing
processing modes
modes the
the verification
verification and
and correction
correction of
of marked
marked up
documents and
and feedback
feedback to
to the
the learning
learning algorithms
algorithms all
all in
in a
a rather
userfriendly manner
an earlier
earlier prototype
prototype was
was used
used by
by two
two noncomputer
science undergraduates
undergraduates and
and seemed
seemed to
to be
be straightforward
straightforward and
and easy
easy to
however being
being a
a prototype
prototype there
there is
is still
still room
room for
for improvements
we ran
ran a
a simple
simple experiment
experiment to
to demonstrate
demonstrate the
the differences
differences between
between the
two learning
learning techniques
techniques when
when applied
applied to
to semantic
semantic markup
markup of
of taxonomic
we used
used descriptions
descriptions from
from flora
flora of
of north
north america
manually markedup
markedup according
according to
to the
the aforementioned
aforementioned schema
for the
supervised learning
learning algorithm
algorithm the
the descriptions
descriptions were
were evenly
evenly divided
divided into
two sets
sets training
training and
and test
test sets
sets for
for the
the unsupervised
unsupervised learning
algorithm since
since no
no training
training was
was needed
needed all
all descriptions
descriptions were
were involved
in the
the bootstrapping
neither algorithms
algorithms were
were optimized
optimized for
for speed
speed at
at this
this time
time but
but it
it took
times as
as long
long for
for the
the supervised
supervised learning
learning algorithm
algorithm to
to mark
mark up
mins as
as for
for the
the unsupervised
unsupervised learning
learning algorithm
algorithm to
mark up
up descriptions
mins on
on a
a gateway
ghz internal
core cpu
cpu laptop
laptop with
with the
the java
java heap
heap size
size set
set to
to mb
the supervised
learning algorithm
algorithm put
put of
of all
all words
words in
in the
the descriptions
descriptions in
correct tags
the unsupervised
unsupervised learning
learning marked
marked of
of the
sentences correctly
correctly and
and identified
identified good
good tags
tags for
for of
of the
unique subjects
it marked
marked sentences
sentences unique
unique subjects
subjects incorrectly
and couldnt
couldnt make
make a
a decision
decision on
on another
another sentences
sentences unique
comparing a
a description
description for
for aristolochiaceae
aristolochiaceae aristolochia
aristolochia serpentaria
marked up
up using
using different
different techniques
techniques table
table we
we see
see the
the effects
effects of
the learning
learning algorithms
the unsupervised
unsupervised learning
learning produces
produces wellformed
xml documents
documents and
and the
the tags
tags are
are generated
generated and
and applied
applied as
as the
the description
contents warrant
warrant while
while supervised
supervised learning
learning assumes
assumes a
a generic
generic xml
xml schema
no matter
matter the
the description
description contents
the effects
effects of
of this
this distinction
distinction are
shown in
in different
different ways
ways the
the unsupervised
unsupervised learning
learning generally
generally produced
more detailed
detailed markup
markup especially
especially in
in the
the leaf
leaf description
description than
than the
learning the
the unsupervised
unsupervised learning
learning explicitly
explicitly marked
marked organsstructures
hidden in
in other
other features
features element
element produced
produced by
by the
the supervised
learning although
although not
not shown
shown in
in this
this example
example the
the unsupervised
unsupervised learning
is less
less constrained
constrained in
in dealing
dealing with
with uncommon
uncommon organization
organization of
of descriptive
contents for
for example
example describing
describing multiple
multiple organsstructures
organsstructures leaves
and inflorescence
inflorescence in
in one
one sentence
sentence there
there were
were sentences
sentences with
compound subjects
subjects in
in the
the fna
fna descriptions
on the
the other
other hand
hand the
xml schema
schema used
used in
in supervised
supervised learning
learning carries
carries domain
domain knowledge
although implicitly
implicitly but
but allowing
allowing the
the translations
translations of
of concepts
concepts at
different levels
in this
this example
example it
it marked
marked up
up herbs
herbs as
as a
a type
type of
of plant
habit and
and life
life style
style and
and in
supervised markupunsupervised
markupunsupervised markup
phlsgeneralherbs erect
erect to
to decumbent
decumbent to
planthabitandlifestyleherbherbs erect
erect to
to decumbent
decumbent to
youngstemyoung stem
stem ridged
ridged glabrous
glabrous to
to hispid
leafleaves leaf
bladeblockleafbladeleaf blade
blade lanceolate
lanceolate to
to ovate
cm base
base truncate
truncate to
to cordate
cordate sinus
sinus depth
cm apex
apex acute
acute to
acuminate leafblade
surfacesurfaces abaxially
abaxially glabrous
glabrous or
or hispid
hispid surface
venationvenation pinnate
stemgeneralyoung stem
stem ridged
ridged glabrous
glabrous to
to hispid
leafgeneralleaves petiole
leafbladeleaf blade
blade lanceolate
lanceolate to
to ovate
ovate cm
cm base
truncate to
to cordate
cordate sinus
sinus depth
cm apex
apex acute
acute to
to acuminate
surfaces abaxially
abaxially glabrous
glabrous or
or hispid
hispid venation
venation pinnate
inflorescenceinflorescences from
from base
base of
of stem
stem an
an additional
additional flower
in axil
axil of
of stem
stem leaf
leaf racemes
racemes inflorescence
pedunclepeduncle bracteolate
bracteolate to
cm peduncle
bracteolebracteoles lanceolate
lanceolate to
to mm
inflorescencegeneralinflorescences from
from base
base of
of stem
stem an
an additional
flower in
in axil
axil of
of stem
stem leaf
leaf racemesinflorescencegeneral
pedunclepeduncle bracteolate
bracteolate to
bracteolebracteoles lanceolate
lanceolate to
to mm
flowerflowers flower
calyxcalyx brownpurple
brownpurple bent
bent calyx
utricleutricle pendent
pendent pearshaped
pearshaped to
to ovoid
syrinxsyrinx present
present ringlike
ringlike mm
mm oblique
oblique syrinx
tubetube bent
bent cylindric
cylindric cm
cm tube
annuluannulus smooth
smooth annulu
limblimb purplish
purplish brown
brown lobed
lobed lobes
glabrous limb
gynostemiumgynostemium lobed
lobed globose
globose to
to crownshaped
antheranthers anther
ovaryovary locular
locular to
flowergeneralflowers calyx
calyx brownpurple
brownpurple bentflowergeneral
otherfeaturesutricle pendent
pendent pearshaped
pearshaped to
to ovoid
cm syrinx
present ringlike
ringlike mm
mm oblique
oblique tube
tube bent
bent cylindric
cylindric cm
cm annulus
smooth limb
limb purplish
purplish brown
brown lobed
lobed lobes
cm glabrous
gynostemium lobed
lobed globose
globose to
to crownshaped
mm otherfeatures
antheranthers anther
ovaryovary locular
locular to
fruitgeneralcapsule globose
cm dehiscence
valvevalves valve
septumsepta absent
capsulecapsule globose
cm dehiscence
dehiscence basipetal
valvevalves valve
septumsepta absent
seedgeneralseeds rounded
rounded ovate
seedsseedseeds rounded
rounded ovate
table the
the comparison
comparison of
of the
the same
same description
description markedup
markedup by
by different
learning algorithms
algorithms effect
effect translated
translated herb
herb to
to its
its broader
broader concept
similarly it
it took
took capsule
capsule as
as a
a type
type of
fruit and
and n
n chromosome
chromosome counts
there were
were also
also instances
instances of
of organstructure
organstructure descriptions
descriptions marked
marked as
other features
features by
by the
the supervised
supervised algorithm
algorithm including
including those
those about
staminodial ring
ring utricle
utricle st
st leaves
leaves glandular
glandular hairs
hairs intravaginal
squamules pigment
pigment cells
cells stomates
stomates ring
ring meristem
meristem ostiole
ostiole air
chambers leaf
leaf primordia
primordia terminal
terminal leaflet
leaflet abaxial
abaxial ridges
ridges stranded
plants hastula
hastula cells
cells sporangiasters
sporangiasters staminate
staminate scales
scales and
cystoliths totally
totally organsstructures
unsupervised learning
learning on
on the
other hand
hand discovered
discovered good
good tags
tags for
for of
of these
these structures
structures and
and marked
of these
these instances
instances with
with correct
correct tags
what have
have we
we learned
learned from
from the
the experiment
experiment on
on the
the randomly
randomly selected
fna descriptions
descriptions first
first we
we learned
learned that
that the
the documents
documents from
from the
the real
world will
will contain
contain information
information that
that is
is not
not covered
covered by
by a
a predefined
predefined xml
in the
the descriptions
descriptions a
a tiny
tiny portion
portion of
of fna
fna new
new volumes
volumes of
which are
are still
still being
being published
published organsstructures
organsstructures were
were not
not found
found in
the xml
xml schema
in addition
addition there
there are
are also
also descriptive
descriptive sentences
with compound
compound subjects
subjects which
which cannot
cannot be
be tagged
tagged as
as any
any single
we believe
believe a
a semantic
semantic schema
schema let
let it
it be
be an
an xml
xml schema
or an
an ontology
ontology is
is necessary
necessary for
for any
any semantic
semantic markup
markup task
task to
to ensure
consistent interpretation
the topdown
topdown approach
approach to
to the
the creation
creation of
of such
a schema
schema however
however does
does not
not seem
seem to
to be
be a
a viable
viable approach
in order
order to
discover all
all organsstructures
organsstructures described
described in
in a
a collection
collection we
we believe
believe a
bottomup approach
approach based
based on
on the
the literature
literature warrant
warrant principle
principle such
such as
as the
unsupervised learning
learning method
method described
described in
in this
this paper
paper is
is more
more feasible
to say
say the
the least
least the
the unsupervised
unsupervised learning
learning method
method can
can be
be used
used to
generate element
element candidates
candidates and
and to
to identify
identify difficult
difficult cases
unknown for
for the
the human
human experts
experts to
to base
base their
their work
work on
second we
we saw
saw that
that the
the strength
strength and
and weakness
weakness of
of the
the two
two techniques
techniques are
quite evident
the unsupervised
unsupervised technique
technique is
is more
more flexible
flexible more
efficient and
and capable
capable of
of uncover
uncover newrare
newrare organsstructures
but it
it has
the shortcoming
shortcoming of
of unable
unable to
to associate
associate concepts
concepts with
with their
their broader
for example
example it
it marks
marks different
different fruit
fruit types
types explicitly
explicitly yet
unable to
to tell
tell that
that they
they share
share one
one broader
broader concept
concept fruit
we often
assume that
that the
the semantic
semantic relationships
relationships among
among domain
domain concepts
concepts have
have long
been codified
codified in
in a
a thesaurus
thesaurus or
or something
something similar
while such
assumptions are
are often
often unfounded
unfounded even
even if
if they
they are
are we
we still
still face
face the
issue of
of discrepancies
discrepancies among
among different
different thesauri
thesauri for
for example
example if
if you
trace the
the hypernymy
hypernymy relation
relation of
of the
the word
word nut
nut in
in wordnet
wordnet you
you will
will find
nut is
is a
a seed
however in
in the
the oxford
oxford plant
plant characters
characters thesaurus
nuts parent
parent term
term is
is fruit
in wordnet
wordnet a
a capsule
capsule is
is a
a seed
seed vessel
but in
in oxford
oxford it
it is
is a
a fruit
fortunately the
the unsupervised
unsupervised learning
algorithm reduced
reduced the
the workload
workload for
for human
human experts
experts to
to make
make situated
associations among
among concepts
concepts from
from reading
reading x
x sentences
sentences to
to examine
examine y
distinct tags
in case
case of
of the
the fna
fna descriptions
descriptions x
x y
this identifies
identifies an
an additional
additional component
component to
to be
be implemented
implemented as
as a
a part
part of
the martt
martt interface
interface application
in addition
addition to
to support
support supervised
supervised and
unsupervised learning
learning a
a module
module is
is needed
needed to
to allow
allow a
a human
human expert
expert to
establish semantic
semantic relationships
relationships among
among existing
existing or
or introduced
introduced concepts
this is
is what
what we
we will
will do
do next
abascal r
xtract structure
structure extraction
extraction from
botanical textual
textual descriptions
proceeding of
of the
the string
string processing
information retrieval
retrieval symposium
symposium and
and international
international workshop
workshop on
on groupware
spirecriwg pp
blum s
an overview
overview of
of biodiversity
biodiversity informatics
cui h
martt using
using knowledge
knowledge based
based approach
approach to
to automatically
mark up
up plant
plant taxonomic
taxonomic descriptions
descriptions with
with xml
proceedings of
of the
the annual
meeting of
of american
american association
association of
of information
information and
and technology
charlotte north
north carolina
carolina usa
cui h
heidorn p
the reusability
reusability of
of induced
induced knowledge
for the
the automatic
automatic semantic
semantic markup
markup of
of taxonomic
taxonomic descriptions
journal of
the american
american society
society for
for information
information science
science and
and technology
fna editorial
editorial committee
flora of
of north
north america
america north
north of
of mexico
guide for
for contributors
accessed july
july from
from hyperlink
pdf hyperlink
pdf hyperlink
pdf hyperlink
pdf hyperlink
pdf hyperlink
fna flora
flora of
of north
north america
america editorial
editorial committee
of north
north america
america north
north of
of mexico
accessed july
july from
from hyperlink
org httpwww
foc flora
flora of
of china
china editorial
editorial committee
flora of
of china
louis science
science pressmissouri
pressmissouri botanical
botanical garden
garden press
accessed july
july from
from hyperlink
educhina hyperlink
educhina hyperlink
heidorn p
cui h
the interaction
interaction of
of result
result set
set display
dimensionality and
and cognitive
cognitive factors
factors in
in information
information retrieval
retrieval systems
proceedings of
of the
the annual
annual meeting
meeting of
of the
the american
american society
society for
information science
science asis
asis pp
kirkup d
malcolm p
christian g
paton a
towards a
digital african
african flora
koning d
sarkar i
moritz t
taxongrad extracting
taxonomic names
names from
from text
biodiversity informatics
lydon s
wood m
huxley r
sutton d
data patterns
in multiple
multiple botanical
botanical descriptions
descriptions implications
implications for
for automatic
processing of
of legacy
legacy data
systematics and
and biodiversity
riloff e
jones r
learning dictionaries
dictionaries for
for information
extraction by
by multilevel
multilevel bootstrapping
proceedings of
of the
the th
national conference
conference on
on artificial
artificial intelligence
sautter g
agosti d
bhm k
a combining
combining approach
approach to
find all
all taxon
taxon namesfat
biodiversity informatics
sautter g
agosti d
bhm k
semiautomated xml
xml markup
of biosystematics
biosystematics legacy
legacy literature
literature with
with the
the goldengate
goldengate editor
proceedings of
of psb
psb wailea
wailea hi
hi usa
accessed july
july from
sautter g
bhm k
agosti d
a quantitative
quantitative comparison
of xml
xml schemas
schemas for
for taxonomic
taxonomic publications
biodiversity informatics
taylor a
extracting knowledge
knowledge from
from biological
biological descriptions
proceedings of
of nd
nd international
international conference
conference on
on building
building and
and sharing
sharing very
largescale knowledge
knowledge bases
vanel j
worldwide botanical
botanical knowledge
knowledge base
accessed july
from hyperlink
hyperlink httpwwbota
fr hyperlink
fr hyperlink
hyperlink httpwwbota
wood m
lydon s
tablan v
maynard d
cunningham h
populating a
a database
database from
from parallel
parallel texts
texts using
using ontologybased
information extraction
in meziane
meziane f
and metais
metais e
proceedings of
of natural
natural language
language processing
processing and
and information
information systems
systems th
international conference
conference on
on applications
applications of
of natural
natural languages
languages to
information systems
