culture at
at the
the interface
interface collaborative
collaborative design
design and
and information
management with
with indigenous
indigenous communities
christen kimberly
kimberly dietrich
dietrich craig
craig srinivasan
srinivasan ramesh
washington state
state university
university university
university of
of iowa
iowa university
university of
california los
los angeles
digital technologies
technologies provide
provide the
the platform
platform for
for both
both preserving
preserving and
producing cultural
cultural knowledge
knowledge and
and materials
indigenous and
and other
subaltern cultural
cultural perspectives
perspectives on
on access
access authority
authority and
and accountability
in relation
relation to
to cultural
cultural materials
materials and
and knowledge
knowledge are
are often
often marginalized
in dominant
dominant narratives
narratives about
about the
the possibilities
possibilities of
of digital
digital technologies
mainstream notions
notions of
of search
search and
and open
open access
access guided
guided by
googles mantra
mantra of
of providing
providing universal
universal access
access to
to everythingoften
leave out
out or
or too
too easily
easily blur
blur the
the lines
lines between
between the
the multiple
multiple forms
forms of
technological translations
translations and
and other
other knowledgeproperty
knowledgeproperty systems
while digital
digital technologies
technologies have
have much
much to
to offer
offer to
to museums
museums and
and other
archival institutions
institutions and
and their
their many
many publics
publics their
their use
use needs
needs to
to call
call in
to question
question the
the viability
viability of
of universal
universal logics
logics of
of search
search and
and access
since the
the mid
mid s
s museums
museums archives
archives libraries
libraries and
and especially
especially land
grant universities
universities in
in the
the united
united states
states have
have recognized
recognized the
the need
need to
direct their
their energies
energies towards
towards outreach
outreach to
to the
the indigenous
indigenous communities
whose materials
materials they
they hold
many archives
archives have
have signed
signed memorandums
memorandums of
understanding mous
mous with
with indigenous
indigenous communities
communities promising
promising access
access and
support in
in retrieving
retrieving materials
digital technologies
technologies have
have allowed
archives to
to produce
produce online
online databases
databases and
and expand
expand their
their physical
physical catalogs
with digital
digital repositories
at the
the same
same time
time archival
archival mandates
mandates to
preserve information
information intersect
intersect with
with the
the capabilities
capabilities of
of digital
technologies to
to distribute
distribute information
information over
over networks
in the
the context
context of
information freedom
freedom rhetoric
rhetoric and
and appeals
appeals for
for access
access to
knowledge archives
archives have
have found
found themselves
themselves at
at the
the center
center of
of information
management debates
debates and
and strategies
strategies for
for new
new models
models for
for information
indexing and
and distribution
museums and
and archives
archives now
now enlivened
enlivened by
by the
the possibilities
possibilities afforded
afforded by
digital technologies
technologies are
are at
at a
a crossroads
crossroads in
in dealing
dealing with
with emergent
information management
management systems
systems and
and the
the cultural
cultural ethical
ethical and
and legal
commitments they
they have
have to
to their
their multiple
multiple stakeholders
making their
materials open
open on
on the
the one
one hand
hand and
and working
working with
with divergent
protocols for
for access
access and
and distribution
distribution on
on the
the other
other in
in addition
physical distances
distances educational
educational and
and linguistic
linguistic barriers
barriers and
and high
high levels
of poverty
poverty have
have all
all made
made traditional
traditional archives
archives unapproachable
unapproachable places
places for
indigenous communities
communities whose
whose cultural
cultural materials
materials and
and institutional
histories are
are preserved
preserved within
within them
however in
in the
the last
last ten
ten years
there has
has been
been a
a groundswell
groundswell of
of activity
activity lead
lead by
by local
local indigenous
communities in
in conversation
conversation with
with museums
museums archives
archives and
and technologists
technologists to
incorporate indigenous
indigenous cultural
cultural protocols
protocols into
into the
the parameters
parameters of
archival sensibilities
sensibilities design
design and
and infrastructure
projects around
around the
world are
are seeking
seeking to
to integrate
integrate indigenous
indigenous protocols
protocols into
into their
the papers
papers in
in this
this panel
panel focus
focus on
on collaborative
collaborative efforts
efforts between
between museums
archives and
and local
local indigenous
indigenous communities
communities in
in australia
australia and
and native
native north
america to
to create
create digital
digital archival
archival systems
systems informed
informed by
by indigenous
practices and
and protocols
the panel
panel members
members come
come from
from diverse
diverse academic
and technological
technological backgrounds
backgrounds representing
representing the
the fine
fine arts
arts humanities
humanities and
social sciences
their work
work is
is informed
informed by
by interdisciplinary
interdisciplinary concerns
shaping scholars
scholars understandings
understandings of
of the
the practical
practical uses
uses of
of digital
technologies for
for underrepresented
underrepresented groups
groups and
and the
the collaborative
collaborative ways
ways in
which technology
technology can
can be
be leveraged
leveraged in
in service
service of
of cultural
cultural differences
the first
first paper
paper co
co presented
presented by
by the
the principal
principal investigator
investigator and
software designer
designer based
based on
on ten
ten years
years of
of collaborative
collaborative work
work with
warumungu community
community members
members in
in australias
australias northern
northern territory
examines the
the production
production of
of an
an indigenous
indigenous community
community digital
digital archive
archive and
its internal
internal search
search functionality
the mukurtu
mukurtu wumpurrarnikari
wumpurrarnikari archive
installed in
in the
the community
community in
in august
august leverages
leverages warumungu
warumungu protocols
for the
the reproduction
reproduction distribution
distribution and
and access
access to
to cultural
cultural materials
materials and
their associated
associated knowledge
knowledge within
within the
the design
design and
and structure
structure of
of the
a series
series of
of restrictions
restrictions and
and sharing
sharing protocols
designated by
by the
the warumungu
warumungu communitydrives
communitydrives the
the searching
searching sorting
and sharing
sharing of
of all
all materials
materials in
in the
the system
the archive
archive thus
challenges dominant
dominant narratives
narratives of
of openness
openness and
and accessibility
accessibility in
in relation
to intangible
intangible cultural
cultural materials
materials and
and acts
acts as
as a
a practical
practical solution
solution to
issues of
of preservation
preservation access
access and
and distribution
distribution that
that face
face indigenous
people globally
the second
second paper
paper describes
describes a
a nsffunded
nsffunded initiative
initiative which
which involves
involves a
direct partnership
partnership with
with the
the zuni
zuni nation
nation of
of new
new mexico
mexico and
and the
the cambridge
uk digital
digital museum
museum initiative
this partnership
partnership involves
involves the
the study
study of
how digital
digital objects
objects of
of excavated
excavated cultural
cultural materials
materials can
can become
become the
the bases
for indigenous
indigenous engagement
engagement and
and stimulate
stimulate the
the release
release of
of indigenous
indigenous and
crosscultural voices
voices into
into the
the larger
larger world
world of
of how
how digital
digital systems
systems are
it questions
questions the
the assumptions
assumptions that
that all
all information
information is
free and
and should
should be
be widely
widely disseminated
disseminated without
without a
a sense
sense of
of bounds
authorship or
or culturallyspecific
culturallyspecific forms
forms of
of reception
moreover it
questions the
the preexisting
preexisting classification
classification systems
systems for
for digital
digital libraries
and museums
museums and
and argues
argues for
for a
a more
more participatory
participatory model
finally it
investigates the
the possibilities
possibilities of
of creating
creating information
information commonses
commonses based
around diverse
diverse voices
voices that
that indigenize
indigenize processes
processes of
of tagging
tagging blogging
and commenting
