eventdriven productivity
productivity infrastructure
hugh taylor
lecturer uc
uc berkeley
berkeley school
school of
of information
senior marketing
marketing manager
manager microsoft
the world
world of
of information
information technology
technology is
is currently
currently experiencing
experiencing the
the parallel
parallel emergence
emergence of
of two
separate paradigms
paradigms eventdriven
eventdriven architecture
architecture eda
eda and
and productivity
productivity infrastructure
infrastructure pi
of these
these constructs
constructs has
has unique
unique portent
portent for
for the
the ways
ways in
in which
which people
people interact
interact with
with data
data and
however there
there is
is also
also an
an exciting
exciting potential
potential for
for the
the two
two constructs
constructs to
to work
work together
in an
an integrated
integrated synergistic
synergistic fashion
eda is
is an
an approach
approach to
to serviceoriented
serviceoriented architecture
architecture soa
soa that
that creates
creates an
an enterprise
nervous system
system aware
aware of
of changes
changes in
in state
state that
that occur
occur within
within applications
applications databases
databases as
as well
well as
the outside
outside world
world by
by publishing
publishing state
state information
information through
through xml
xml to
to a
a message
message backbone
backbone such
such as
an enterprise
enterprise service
service bus
bus esb
event listeners
listeners also
also connected
connected to
to the
the esb
esb distribute
distribute state
change data
data to
to serviceoriented
serviceoriented applications
applications for
for processing
processing and
and reaction
reaction including
including human
the eda
eda approach
approach to
to enterprise
enterprise architecture
architecture offers
offers advantages
advantages in
in agility
agility and
segregation of
of concerns
concerns that
that benefit
benefit the
the utility
utility of
of information
information systems
productivity infrastructure
infrastructure pi
pi is
is an
an umbrella
umbrella term
term to
to describe
describe peoples
peoples and
and organizations
increasingly connected
connected and
and synergistic
synergistic use
use of
of phone
phone email
email internet
internet pda
pda pda
pda intranet
extranet and
and desktop
desktop productivity
productivity applications
what was
was once
once a
a collection
collection of
of essentially
essentially siloed
productivity technologies
technologies and
and work
work flows
flows phone
phone calls
calls emails
emails searching
searching the
the web
web creating
documents using
using a
a pda
pda and
and so
so on
on are
are now
now merging
merging into
into a
a combined
combined infrastructure
infrastructure that
that drives
personal and
and organization
organization productivity
in brand
brand name
name terms
terms productivity
productivity infrastructure
infrastructure is
integrating the
the functionality
functionality of
of product
product sets
sets such
such as
as microsofts
microsofts office
office system
system ciscos
ciscos voip
solutions ibms
ibms lotus
lotus suite
suite and
and googles
googles docs
docs and
and gmail
gmail services
services just
just to
to name
name a
a few
this paper
paper explores
explores the
the potential
potential integration
integration of
of eda
eda with
with productivity
productivity infrastructure
that originate
originate from
from applications
applications in
in the
the eda
eda can
can be
be published
published to
to individual
individual human
human users
users or
collaborative groups
groups operating
operating in
in the
the productivity
productivity infrastructure
the integration
integration has
has the
the potential
to connect
connect real
real time
time operations
operations of
of an
an enterprise
enterprise with
with web
technologies such
such as
as blogs
blogs and
wikis as
as well
well as
as a
a range
range of
of mobile
mobile computing
computing technologies
technologies in
in addition
addition to
to standard
standard portal
the paper
paper focuses
focuses on
on the
the ways
ways that
that productivity
productivity infrastructure
infrastructure empowers
empowers the
the human
thinking and
and decision
decision making
making that
that is
is often
often implicit
implicit in
in the
the process
process flow
flow of
of an
an eda
it looks
looks at
scenarios where
where edapi
edapi integration
integration can
can improve
improve the
the speed
speed quality
quality and
and cost
cost effectiveness
effectiveness of
of end
users in
in a
a large
large enterprise
enterprise environment
further the
the paper
paper will
will examine
examine the
the potential
potential for
for real
real time
human activities
activities to
to become
become events
events themselves
themselves which
which can
can flow
flow in
in the
the other
other direction
direction and
and drive
application functioning
functioning in
in the
the eda
taylor eventdriven
eventdriven productivity
productivity infrastructure
table of
of contents
background of
of research
eda a
a working
working systemic
systemic definition
defining an
an event
eda overview
event producers
producers or
or publishers
event listeners
listeners or
or consumers
event processors
event reactions
messaging backbone
assembling the
the paradigmatic
paradigmatic eda
the flavors
flavors of
of eda
the often
often inadequate
inadequate human
human link
link in
in the
the eda
overview of
of productivity
productivity infrastructure
the potential
potential benefits
benefits of
of edapi
edapi integration
prodco an
an edapi
edapi integration
integration scenario
sales proposal
proposal and
and order
order fulfillment
fulfillment at
at prodco
prod cos
cos current
current productivity
productivity tools
prodcos proposed
proposed eda
a better
better proposal
proposal edapi
edapi integration
edapi integration
integration requirements
piedas target
target architecture
taylor eventdriven
eventdriven productivity
productivity infrastructure
jerry seinfeld
seinfeld does
does a
a routine
routine where
where he
he wonders
wonders how
how mankind
mankind discovered
discovered that
that glue
glue can
can be
made from
from horses
he describes
describes a
a scene
scene where
where someone
someone is
is trying
trying unsuccessfully
unsuccessfully to
to stick
stick two
pieces of
of paper
paper together
together when
when suddenly
suddenly a
a horse
horse rides
rides by
by causing
causing an
an instant
instant revelation
revelation of
potential hey
hey wait
wait a
a minute
minute he
he imagines
imagines the
the brilliant
brilliant inventor
inventor saying
how come
come i
i never
thought of
of that
that before
before so
so it
it is
is too
too in
in it
sometimes trends
trends of
of technological
technological innovation
innovation exist
in parallel
parallel for
for a
a period
period time
time before
before someone
someone realizes
realizes that
that they
they can
can be
be put
put to
to work
work together
together for
for a
greater effect
effect than
than either
either one
one on
on its
its own
there are
are some
some great
great examples
examples of
of this
this from
from the
the history
of technology
technology including
including the
the merging
merging of
of recording
recording technology
technology and
and the
the telephone
telephone creating
creating the
answering machine
machine the
the joining
joining of
of the
the qwtry
qwtry keyboard
keyboard with
with the
the cathode
cathode ray
ray tube
tube and
and the
the cpu
the modern
modern computer
computer or
or the
the phone
phone with
with the
the computer
computer networked
networked computing
today we
we are
are witnessing
witnessing the
the parallel
parallel maturing
maturing of
of eventdriven
eventdriven architecture
architecture eda
typically a
a subset
subset of
of serviceoriented
serviceoriented architecture
architecture soa
soa and
and productivity
productivity infrastructure
infrastructure two
separate but
but potentially
potentially synergetic
synergetic information
information technologies
each is
is powerful
powerful in
in its
its own
own right
but together
together they
they can
can create
create transcendent
transcendent event
event driven
driven information
information processing
processing environments
this paper
paper will
will explore
explore the
the potential
potential integration
integration of
of eda
eda with
with productivity
productivity infrastructure
particular we
we will
will focus
focus on
on the
the ways
ways that
that productivity
productivity infrastructure
infrastructure empowers
empowers the
the human
thinking and
and decision
decision making
making that
that is
is often
often implicit
implicit in
in the
the process
process flow
flow of
of an
an eda
to illustrate
illustrate the
the potential
potential for
for the
the integration
integration of
of productivity
productivity infrastructure
infrastructure and
and eda
eda we
we will
use a
a hypothetical
hypothetical example
example of
of a
a business
business that
that connects
connects its
its purchasing
purchasing process
process and
and related
transactional systems
systems with
with its
its productivity
productivity infrastructure
infrastructure including
including email
email voip
voip blogs
blogs and
instant messaging
i will
will use
use the
the case
case study
study of
of a
a hypothetical
hypothetical business
business to
to understand
understand the
the edapi
connection because
because the
the current
current state
state of
of the
the technology
technology does
does not
not reflect
reflect its
its future
future potential
at the
conclusion of
of this
this paper
paper i
i will
will take
take a
a quick
quick look
look at
at several
several of
of the
the emerging
emerging products
products that
that are
are on
track to
to fulfill
fulfill the
the potential
potential of
of edapi
edapi integration
background of
of research
the subject
subject of
of connecting
connecting backend
backend transactional
transactional systems
systems with
with messaging
messaging infrastructure
infrastructure is
is not
there are
are numerous
numerous examples
examples of
of comparable
comparable structures
structures such
such as
as interactive
interactive voice
voice response
ivr or
or snmp
snmp alerts
alerts forwarded
forwarded from
from system
system management
management consoles
consoles to
to pagers
pagers and
and so
so forth
concept of
of linking
linking instant
instant messaging
messaging presence
presence and
and email
email with
with xml
xml messages
messages used
used in
in business
transactions arises
arises frequently
frequently in
in standards
standards literature
literature commercial
commercial software
software development
development papers
and academic
academic discussions
discussions of
of messaging
messaging and
and serviceoriented
serviceoriented architecture
for example
example there
there is
the soap
soap mailto
mailto command
command in
in soa
due to
to the
the inherent
inherent commercial
commercial promise
promise of
of edapi
integration and
and the
the commercial
commercial basis
basis for
for much
much of
of the
the installed
installed base
base of
of infrastructure
infrastructure much
much of
of the
dialogue about
about edapi
edapi integration
integration is
is occurring
occurring in
in the
the commercial
commercial sphere
for example
example ibm
ibm and
nortel announced
announced in
in a
a plan
plan to
to offer
offer an
an integration
integration between
between soa
soa and
and voip
or the
the new
oslo soa
soa offerings
offerings from
from microsoft
microsoft contain
contain a
a foundation
foundation for
for linking
linking business
business process
modeling web
web services
services and
and email
email messaging
this paper
paper tries
tries to
to go
go one
one step
step further
further and
and explore
a vision
vision of
of edapi
edapi integration
integration that
that has
has not
not yet
yet been
been achieved
achieved in
in the
the commercial
commercial world
world though
one which
which may
may become
become a
a reality
reality in
in the
the near
near future
nortel and
and ibm
ibm use
use soa
soa to
to streamline
streamline communications
communications among
among customers
customers employees
employees and
and partners
taylor eventdriven
eventdriven productivity
productivity infrastructure
eda a
a working
working systemic
systemic definition
eventdriven architecture
architecture is
is an
an approach
approach to
to enterprise
enterprise software
software architecture
architecture that
that is
characterized by
by the
the ability
ability of
of the
the enterprise
enterprise to
to detect
detect events
events and
and react
react to
to them
michelson a
a technology
technology analyst
analyst writes
writes in
in an
an eventdriven
eventdriven architecture
architecture a
a notable
notable thing
thing happens
inside our
our outside
outside your
your business
business which
which disseminates
disseminates immediately
immediately to
to all
all interested
interested parties
parties human
or automated
the interested
interested parties
parties evaluate
evaluate the
the event
event and
and optionally
optionally take
take action
to keep
the discussion
discussion simple
simple i
i am
am going
going to
to make
make the
the following
following assumption
assumption eventdriven
eventdriven architecture
in the
the modern
modern sense
sense is
is based
based on
on the
the set
set of
of xml
xml messaging
messaging standards
standards and
and interoperability
technologies collectively
collectively known
known as
as serviceoriented
serviceoriented architecture
architecture soa
these technologies
include soap
soap web
web services
services uddi
uddi wsdl
wsdl enterprise
enterprise service
service bus
bus esb
esb and
industrycommercial solutions
solutions such
such as
as java
java connector
connector architecture
architecture jca
jca windows
communication foundation
foundation wcf
wcf java
java message
message service
service jms
jms and
and so
so forth
though there
there are
many different
different equally
equally valid
valid approaches
approaches to
to the
the realization
realization of
of eda
eda i
i will
will focus
focus on
on the
the soa
version because
because it
it now
now the
the de
de fact
fact mode
mode of
of implementation
implementation of
of the
the eda
eda paradigm
defining an
an event
first lets
lets define
define what
what we
we mean
mean by
by an
an event
in life
life an
an event
event is
is something
something that
that happens
happens a
car drives
drives by
by a
a ball
ball flies
flies through
through your
your window
window someone
someone falls
falls asleep
asleep an
an action
action occurs
alternatively for
for our
our purposes
purposes an
an event
event can
can also
also be
be an
an expected
expected action
action that
that does
does not
not occur
the temperature
temperature does
does not
not go
go down
down at
at night
night that
that could
could be
be an
an event
in systemic
systemic terms
terms an
an event
generally refers
refers to
to a
a change
change in
in state
a change
change in
in state
state typically
typically means
means that
that a
a data
data value
value has
for example
example if
if you
you make
make a
a credit
credit card
card charge
charge there
there are
are several
several values
values that
that change
change in
in state
state as
the transaction
transaction is
is processed
the value
value of
of your
your account
account balance
balance will
will change
change as
as you
you make
make the
charge as
as will
will the
the state
state of
of your
your card
card from
from quiet
quiet to
to transaction
transaction occurring
occurring and
and so
so on
the shift
from balance
balance to
to balance
balance is
is an
an event
an event
event has
has three
three levels
levels of
of detail
at one
one level
level there
there is
is the
the basic
basic fact
fact that
that an
an event
event has
an event
event has
has either
either occurred
occurred or
or not
this takes
takes us
us to
to the
the second
second level
level of
of detail
detail which
which is
the event
event definition
in order
order to
to recognize
recognize an
an event
event an
an eda
eda must
must have
have a
a definition
definition of
of what
what the
event is
in the
the credit
credit card
card example
example the
the eda
eda must
must work
work with
with a
a definition
definition of
of an
an event
event that
that says
says in
effect a
a change
change in
in balance
balance event
event has
has occurred
occurred whenever
whenever the
the balance
balance value
value goes
goes up
what if
if the
balance goes
goes down
down is
is that
that also
also an
an event
event it
it could
could be
be but
but the
the definition
definition would
would need
need to
to take
take that
into account
thirdly there
there is
is the
the detail
detail of
of the
the specific
specific event
how much
much has
has the
the card
card balance
changed in
in our
our example
example the
the twolevel
twolevel event
event information
information structure
structure would
would say
say soandsos
balance has
has changed
all three
three factors
factors event
event notification
notification event
event definition
definition and
event detail
detail are
are necessary
necessary when
when designing
designing an
an eda
for an
an event
event to
to occur
occur in
in an
an eda
eda it
it must
must be
be in
in digital
digital form
form or
or a
a form
form that
that computer
computer can
however that
that does
does not
not mean
mean that
that an
an eda
eda is
is exclusively
exclusively the
the preserve
preserve of
of digital
a change
change in
in state
state can
can also
also result
result from
from non
non digital
digital information
information being
being translated
translated into
digital form
for example
example a
a digital
digital thermometer
thermometer typically
typically has
has some
some kind
kind of
of analogue
analogue temperature
sensor which
which inputs
inputs temperature
temperature information
information into
into the
the sensor
sensor and
and results
results in
in a
a digital
digital value
value equated
to temperature
the edges
edges of
of an
an eda
eda may
may be
be full
full of
of analog
analog information
information that
that is
is translated
translated into
digital data
data in
in order
order to
to trigger
trigger events
michelson brenda
brenda elemental
elemental links
taylor eventdriven
eventdriven productivity
productivity infrastructure
a key
key learning
learning point
point here
here is
is to
to understand
understand that
that virtually
virtually anything
anything can
can be
be an
an event
event or
or trigger
trigger an
rainfall in
in chad
chad could
could be
be an
an event
event if
if it
it is
is quantified
quantified and
and made
made available
available as
as a
a source
source of
stock market
market activity
activity in
in tokyo
tokyo absolutely
absolutely an
an event
event assuming
assuming you
you know
know why
why you
you are
and on
on and
and on
an ideal
ideal eda
eda can
can be
be easily
easily adapted
adapted to
to recognize
recognize events
events that
that occur
the trickiest
trickiest word
word in
in the
the last
last sentence
sentence was
was easily
easily a
a simple
simple idea
idea that
that can
can generate
generate a
lot of
of discussion
discussion and
and complexity
eda overview
armed with
with a
a sense
sense of
of what
what an
an event
event can
can be
be we
we can
can now
now add
add some
some flesh
flesh to
to the
the basic
basic eda
definition articulated
articulated by
by brenda
brenda michelson
if an
an event
event is
is any
any notable
notable thing
thing that
that happens
happens inside
our outside
outside our
our businesses
businesses then
then an
an eda
eda is
is the
the complete
complete array
array of
of architectural
architectural elements
elements including
design planning
planning technology
technology organization
organization and
and so
so on
on which
which enables
enables the
the ability
ability to
to disseminate
the event
event immediately
immediately to
to all
all interested
interested parties
parties human
human or
or automated
the eda
eda also
also provides
provides the
basis for
for interested
interested parties
parties to
to evaluate
evaluate the
the event
event and
and optionally
optionally take
take action
the reason
reason that
that eda
eda is
is a
a challenging
challenging concept
concept is
is that
that it
it is
is so
so potentially
potentially broad
just as
as almost
any piece
piece of
of data
data analog
analog or
or digital
digital can
can be
be an
an event
event and
and any
any system
system in
in the
the universe
universe can
potentially be
be part
part of
of your
your eda
eda where
where do
do you
you begin
begin to
to draw
draw the
the boundaries
boundaries and
and definition
definition of
of an
eda that
that makes
makes sense
sense to
to your
your organization
organization though
though there
there is
is no
no bullet
bullet proof
proof way
way to
to answer
answer the
question i
i think
think that
that it
it makes
makes sense
sense to
to identify
identify the
the main
main ingredients
ingredients of
of an
an eda
eda and
and build
build the
definition from
from these
these constructs
event producers
producers or
or publishers
in order
order to
to have
have an
an eda
eda we
we must
must first
first have
have events
events that
that may
may seem
seem obvious
obvious but
but a
a lot
lot of
otherwise sophisticated
sophisticated discussions
discussions of
of eda
eda either
either neglect
neglect or
or muddle
muddle up
up this
this central
central enabling
the eda
eda cannot
cannot work
work unless
unless it
it has
has the
the ability
ability to
to perceive
perceive that
that an
an event
event has
has occurred
for that
that to
to happen
happen the
the event
event must
must be
be created
created and
and then
then published
published for
for the
the components
components of
of the
the eda
called listeners
listeners to
to hear
hear them
the technologies
technologies that
that do
do this
this are
are known
known as
as event
event publishers
publishers or
or event
event producers
the broad
broad definition
definition of
of an
an event
event event
event publishers
publishers can
can take
take many
many different
different forms
most are
software programs
programs though
though an
an event
event publisher
publisher can
can also
also be
be a
a dedicated
dedicated piece
piece of
of hardware
hardware that
translates analog
analog data
data into
into digital
digital form
form and
and feeds
feeds it
it into
into software
software that
that can
can detect
detect an
an event
are some
some core
core ideas
ideas to
to keep
keep in
in mind
mind about
about event
event publishers
event publishers
publishers can
can be
be anywhere
because events
events can
can occur
occur outside
outside of
of your
your enterprise
event publishers
publishers that
that relate
relate to
to your
your eda
eda can
can be
be pretty
pretty much
much any
any place
imagine the
the relationship
between an
an airline
airline eda
eda and
and the
the faa
faa radar
radar tower
the radar
radar tower
tower which
which serves
serves many
many purposes
one of
of which
which is
is to
to be
be an
an event
event publisher
publisher is
is completely
completely separate
separate from
from the
the airlines
airlines systems
systems yet
yet it
is part
part of
of the
the eda
event publishers
publishers may
may or
or may
may not
not originate
originate the
the data
data that
that is
is contained
contained in
in the
the event
event itself
their purest
purest form
form an
an event
event publisher
publisher generates
generates a
a piece
piece of
of data
data that
that is
is formatted
formatted to
to be
be heard
heard as
an event
event in
in accordance
accordance with
with the
the edas
edas setup
setup for
for this
this process
for example
example a
a credit
credit card
processing system
system should
should automatically
automatically generate
generate data
data that
that is
is eda
eda ready
ready it
it contains
contains the
the card
holders identifiers
identifiers the
the time
time of
of the
the transaction
transaction the
the amount
amount the
the merchant
merchant name
name and
and so
so on
course the
the data
data was
was created
created for
for the
the purpose
purpose of
of charging
charging the
the card
card not
not feeding
feeding the
the eda
eda but
but it
serves that
that purpose
purpose quite
quite readily
in contrast
contrast other
other event
event publishers
publishers need
need to
to translate
translate data
data into
into a
format that
that constitutes
constitutes an
an event
event according
according to
to what
what the
the eda
eda requires
for example
example there
there is
is no
inherent event
event pattern
pattern in
in the
the tokyo
tokyo stock
stock exchange
exchange index
index unless
unless you
you specifically
specifically instruct
instruct an
an event
publisher to
to transmit
transmit data
data about
about the
the index
index in
in a
a manner
manner that
that makes
makes sense
sense to
to your
your edas
edas purposes
taylor eventdriven
eventdriven productivity
productivity infrastructure
event listeners
listeners or
or consumers
like event
event publishers
publishers event
event listeners
listeners can
can be
be anywhere
in theory
theory the
the event
event listener
listener or
consumer has
has a
a communication
communication link
link with
with the
the event
event publishers
that is
is not
not always
always the
the case
case but
we will
will work
work under
under that
that assumption
assumption for
for now
the event
event listener
listener is
is a
a piece
piece of
of technology
typically software
software based
based but
but also
also hardware
hardware that
that knows
knows how
how to
to differentiate
differentiate an
an event
event as
as it
it is
defined from
from other
other data
data it
it receives
in the
the simplest
simplest form
form of
of eda
eda the
the event
event listener
listener can
can only
only receive
receive the
the specific
specific event
event data
data that
that it
is meant
meant to
to hear
for example
example an
an eda
eda for
for building
building security
security may
may be
be based
based on
on a
a burglar
burglar alarm
whose event
event listeners
listeners can
can only
only hear
hear one
one kind
kind of
of event
event the
the kind
kind created
created by
by window
window break
detecting event
event producers
there is
is just
just one
one kind
kind of
of event
event that
that can
can occur
occur a
a break
break in
the real
world of
of course
course is
is more
more complex
complex and
and as
as we
we progress
progress we
we will
will get
get into
into more
more involved
involved eda
event listeners
listeners also
also need
need to
to know
know what
what they
they are
are listening
listening for
for an
an application
application that
that reads
the data
data stream
stream of
of the
the tokyo
tokyo stock
stock market
market average
average is
is not
not an
an event
event listener
listener until
until it
it has
has been
instructed to
to listen
listen for
for some
some specific
specific type
type of
of event
for instance
instance the
the event
event listener
listener must
must know
that a
a gain
gain of
of or
or more
more in
in the
the average
average is
is an
an event
a gain
gain is
is not
not an
an event
the event
listener must
must be
be able
able to
to detect
detect the
the event
event and
and be
be capable
capable of
of learning
learning what
what the
the event
event is
event processors
after an
an event
event has
has occurred
occurred and
and been
been published
published and
and consumed
consumed or
or listened
listened to
to it
it must
be processed
it does
does little
little good
good to
to have
have an
an event
event that
that is
is perceived
perceived but
but not
not handled
an eda
without event
event processors
processors brings
brings to
to mind
mind the
the great
great joke
joke about
about economists
a man
man gets
gets lost
lost in
in a
hot air
air balloon
after drifting
drifting for
for hours
hours he
he finally
finally sees
sees an
an economist
economist standing
standing on
on the
the ground
man yells
yells out
out where
where am
am i
i to
to which
which the
the economist
economist replies
replies youre
youre up
up in
in the
the air
unlike the
economist who
who may
may know
know the
the facts
facts but
but be
be unable
unable to
to make
make any
any sense
sense of
of them
them an
an eda
eda should
have the
the capacity
capacity to
to interpret
interpret the
the events
events it
it hears
an event
event processor
processor is
is invariably
invariably a
a piece
piece of
of software
while it
it may
may or
or may
may not
not be
be part
part of
of some
larger more
more comprehensive
comprehensive suite
suite of
of applications
applications an
an event
event processor
processor is
is distinctive
distinctive because
because it
it has
the ability
ability to
to assess
assess events
events determine
determine their
their importance
importance and
and generate
generate a
a reaction
reaction of
of some
some kind
even if
if the
the reaction
reaction is
is do
do nothing
event reactions
following our
our chain
chain of
of activities
activities we
we have
have an
an event
event which
which is
is published
published by
by an
an event
event publisher
heard by
by an
an event
event listener
listener and
and processed
processed by
by an
an event
event processor
then something
something or
or nothing
needs to
to happen
because something
something happening
happening is
is inherently
inherently more
more interesting
interesting than
than nothing
happening lets
lets look
look at
at event
event reactions
reactions that
that require
require action
reactions to
to an
an event
event in
in an
an eda
eda vary
vary widely
widely from
from automated
automated application
application responses
responses to
automated notifications
notifications sent
sent either
either to
to applications
applications or
or people
people to
to purely
purely human
human reactions
reactions based
based on
business processes
processes that
that occur
occur outside
outside of
of the
the eda
eda itself
in the
the purely
purely automated
automated application
response category
category we
we might
might see
see an
an eda
eda that
that reactions
reactions to
to an
an event
event by
by initiating
initiating an
an application
level process
for example
example in
in the
the credit
credit card
card fraud
fraud example
example the
the eda
eda might
might modify
modify a
a variable
value from
from normal
normal to
to warning
warning based
based on
on an
an event
event that
that suggested
suggested that
that fraud
fraud were
were occurring
this reaction
reaction were
were coded
coded into
into the
the event
event reaction
reaction it
it will
will happen
happen without
without any
any human
human involvement
following from
from this
this another
another related
related branch
branch of
of processes
processes might
might handle
handle new
new charge
charge requests
requests on
on the
taylor eventdriven
eventdriven productivity
productivity infrastructure
account differently
differently based
based on
on a
a warning
warning value
value than
than from
from a
a normal
normal state
event processors
and reactions
reactions can
can be
be linked
linked and
and interdependent
the event
event reaction
reaction might
might be
be machinetohuman
continuing with
with our
our example
example imagine
imagine that
there is
is a
a customer
customer service
service representative
representative who
who sees
sees all
all the
the new
new warning
warning value
value changes
changes and
and is
prompted to
to call
call the
the cardholder
cardholder to
to inquire
inquire about
about the
the status
status of
of their
their card
this approach
approach to
to eda
eda is
dependent on
on the
the human
human reaction
reaction to
to an
an event
event a
a situation
situation that
that may
may be
be good
good or
or bad
bad depending
depending on
the desired
desired outcome
for example
example many
many intrusion
intrusion detection
detection systems
systems that
that monitor
monitor networks
networks for
unauthorized access
access attempts
attempts generate
generate a
a great
great deal
deal of
of false
false positives
the system
system itself
itself which
which is
essentially a
a tightly
tightly defined
defined eda
eda will
will only
only be
be as
as good
good as
as the
the person
person who
who monitors
monitors it
there are
are some
some intrusion
intrusion detections
detections that
that are
are not
not monitored
monitored at
at all
what these
these defectively
implemented systems
systems do
do is
is generate
generate logs
logs consisting
consisting of
of thousands
thousands of
of possible
possible intrusion
intrusion records
which are
are essentially
essentially useless
the takeaway
takeaway here
here is
is that
that the
the human
human reaction
reaction is
is very
very much
much part
part of
the eda
eda design
design even
even though
though it
it does
does not
not involve
involve technology
technology per
per se
finally there
there are
are edas
edas where
where the
the event
event reaction
reaction is
is based
based on
on an
an entirely
entirely human
human set
set of
processes following
following the
the detection
detection and
and processing
processing of
of the
the original
original event
for example
example an
an eda
might generate
generate a
a number
number of
of alerts
alerts a
a number
number of
of stock
stock market
market indicators
an investor
investor then
then reviews
the alerts
alerts and
and decides
decides whether
whether to
to buy
buy or
or sell
once again
again the
the eda
eda design
design must
must take
take into
into account
the human
human reaction
reaction as
as part
part of
of its
its eventual
eventual success
success or
or failure
and with
with this
this type
type of
of complex
human decisionmaking
decisionmaking it
it can
can be
be quite
quite challenging
challenging to
to determine
determine what
what the
the right
right reaction
reaction should
experts may
may differ
differ on
on how
how to
to react
react to
to identical
identical sets
sets of
of event
event alerts
as they
they say
say on
on wall
street these
these differences
differences of
of opinion
opinion make
make for
for a
a good
good horse
horse race
messaging backbone
the fifth
fifth and
and final
final core
core component
component of
of an
an eda
eda is
is the
the messaging
messaging backbone
backbone the
communication infrastructure
infrastructure inclusive
inclusive of
of hardware
hardware software
software network
network protocols
protocols and
and message
formats that
that enables
enables each
each piece
piece of
of the
the eda
eda to
to communicate
communicate with
with one
one another
in order
order to
to serve
an eda
eda effectively
effectively a
a messaging
messaging backbone
backbone must
must have
have several
several characteristics
an eda
messaging backbone
backbone needs
needs to
to be
be as
as near
near to
to universal
universal as
as possible
possible meaning
meaning that
that it
it should
should enable
messaging across
across multiple
multiple network
network transport
transport protocols
protocols and
and data
data formats
in other
other words
words it
it should
be standards
standards based
based or
or have
have the
the ability
ability to
to mediate
mediate across
across multiple
multiple messaging
messaging standards
it should
be pervasive
pervasive i
farreaching and
and universally
universally accessible
in reality
reality this
this means
means that
that it
it is
is based
based on
the internet
internet though
though it
it need
need not
not be
it should
should be
be inexpensive
inexpensive to
to develop
develop maintain
maintain and
and modify
modify a
lot easier
easier said
said than
than done
done but
but this
this is
is a
a critical
cost is
is the
the invisible
invisible hand
hand that
that has
has killed
killed many
great eda
eda initiatives
finally it
it should
should enable
enable a
a high
high level
level of
of decoupling
decoupling between
between event
producers and
and event
event consumers
in reality
reality this
this usually
usually translates
translates into
into a
a publishsubscribe
publishsubscribe or
pubsub set
set up
the messaging
messaging backbone
backbone is
is arguably
arguably the
the most
most essential
essential piece
piece of
of the
the eda
eda puzzle
puzzle for
for without
it there
there can
can be
be no
no eda
without the
the ability
ability to
to communicate
communicate the
the event
event listeners
listeners producers
processors or
or reaction
reaction processes
processes cannot
cannot work
now you
you might
might be
be thinking
thinking yes
yes of
of course
course they
can one
one can
can always
always create
create communication
communication interfaces
interfaces between
between systems
of course
course this
this has
has been
true for
for many
many years
the reality
reality though
though is
is that
that proprietary
proprietary interfaces
interfaces which
which have
have been
been the
traditional way
way to
to achieve
achieve connections
connections are
are costly
costly to
to develop
develop maintain
maintain and
and modify
so costly
costly in
fact that
that they
they have
have rendered
rendered the
the concept
concept of
of a
a dynamic
dynamic eda
eda virtually
virtually impossible
impossible to
to realize
as i
have noted
noted earlier
earlier i
i will
will work
work with
with the
the assumption
assumption that
that the
the messaging
messaging backbone
backbone of
of the
the eda
eda will
be an
an enterprise
enterprise service
service bus
bus esb
esb or
or equivalent
taylor eventdriven
eventdriven productivity
productivity infrastructure
assembling the
the paradigmatic
paradigmatic eda
to get
get to
to the
the paradigmatic
paradigmatic eda
eda the
the one
one i
i will
will use
use as
as the
the reference
reference point
point for
for the
the rest
rest of
of this
paper involves
involves connecting
connecting event
event producers
producers event
event listeners
listeners event
event processors
processors and
and event
reactions using
using a
a common
common messaging
messaging backbone
figure shows
shows what
what this
this looks
looks like
like in
in the
plainest terms
obviously things
things can
can get
get wildly
wildly more
more complex
complex in
in real
real life
life but
but i
i thought
thought it
it would
be best
best to
to start
start with
with a
a very
very stripped
stripped down
down paradigm
paradigm example
example to
to start
message flow
state a
state b
event producer
event listener
event processor
event reaction
messaging backbone
the paradigmatic
paradigmatic eda
eda consisting
consisting of
of event
event producer
producer event
event listener
listener event
event processor
processor and
and event
reaction all
all connected
connected through
through a
a common
common messaging
messaging backbone
like an
an enterprise
enterprise nervous
nervous system
system the
the eda
eda works
works as
as a
a whole
whole taking
taking in
in signal
signal inputs
inputs in
the form
form of
of event
event data
data processing
processing it
it and
and reacting
reacting to
to it
it based
based on
on some
some kind
kind of
of intelligent
intelligent model
like the
the nerve
nerve endings
endings that
that tell
tell us
us when
when we
we are
are hot
hot or
or cold
cold being
being touched
touched or
or falling
falling through
through the
air event
event listeners
listeners in
in the
the eda
eda quantify
quantify information
information from
from the
the world
world and
and order
order it
it into
into a
a form
form that
the eda
eda can
can understand
the messaging
messaging backbone
backbone of
of the
the eda
eda is
is like
like the
the nerve
nerve cells
cells themselves
transmitting signals
signals back
back and
and forth
forth from
from various
various places
places in
in the
the body
body and
and toward
toward the
the brain
brain is
is like
like the
the edas
edas event
event processing
processing components
it takes
takes in
in event
event data
data and
and decides
decides how
how to
respond to
to it
the event
event reaction
reaction components
components are
are like
like our
our limbs
based on
on the
the input
input we
we take
action or
or not
the flavors
flavors of
of eda
theres an
an old
old joke
joke about
about las
las vegas
vegas where
where a
a guy
guy wants
wants to
to be
be seated
seated at
at a
a restaurant
restaurant and
and is
asked which
which section
section would
would you
you prefer
prefer smoking
smoking or
or chain
chain smoking
smoking eda
eda is
is the
the same
every system
system has
has some
some degree
degree of
of event
event orientation
orientation in
in it
after all
all computing
computing is
is essentially
essentially a
matter of
of input
input processing
processing and
and output
output much
much like
like an
an eda
following from
from this
this discussions
discussions of
what an
an eda
eda actually
actually looks
looks like
like can
can be
be confusing
confusing because
because they
they tend
tend to
to get
get overly
overly broad
broad and
encompass well
well just
just about
about everything
everything the
the it
it universe
to keep
keep our
our focus
focus lets
lets look
look at
at several
prime models
models of
of eda
eda that
that are
are in
in use
use today
according to
to manas
manas deb
deb there
there are
are two
two essential
essential types
types of
of eda
eda explicit
explicit and
and implicit
in an
explicit eda
eda the
the event
event publishers
publishers send
send event
event data
data to
to known
known event
event listeners
listeners perhaps
perhaps even
even by
direct hard
hard coding
coding of
of the
the event
event listener
listener destination
destination right
right into
into the
the event
event producer
most current
implementations of
of eda
eda are
are either
either partly
partly or
or wholly
wholly explicit
as such
such they
they tend
tend to
to rely
rely on
on tight
coupling of
of event
event producers
producers and
and event
event listeners
in contrast
contrast an
an implicit
implicit eda
eda does
does not
not specify
specify any
any dedicated
dedicated connections
connections between
between event
producers and
and event
event listeners
the event
event listeners
listeners or
or the
the event
event processors
processors even
even may
may determine
the events
events to
to which
which they
they want
want to
to listen
the coupling
coupling between
between the
the event
event producers
producers and
and listeners
will be
be loose
loose or
or even
even completely
completely decoupled
decoupled in
in an
an implicit
implicit eda
as you
you might
might imagine
imagine an
implicit eda
eda is
is more
more flexible
flexible and
and dynamic
dynamic than
than an
an explicit
explicit eda
historically they
they have
have proved
deb manas
manas eda
eda and
and event
event processing
processing essentials
essentials visual
visual studio
studio magazine
taylor eventdriven
eventdriven productivity
productivity infrastructure
too complex
complex to
to implement
this is
is beginning
beginning to
to change
change with
with the
the advent
advent and
and adoption
adoption of
of open
within edas
edas themselves
themselves there
there are
are three
three basic
basic patterns
patterns simple
simple event
event processing
processing event
stream processing
processing and
and complex
complex event
event processing
processing which
which is
is known
known as
as cep
in simple
simple event
processing the
the eda
eda is
is quite
quite narrow
narrow and
and simple
the event
event producers
producers function
function is
is to
to generate
event data
data and
and send
send it
it to
to the
the event
event listener
listener which
which in
in turn
turn processes
processes it
it in
in whatever
whatever manner
manner is
the thermostat
thermostat example
example is
is emblematic
emblematic of
of a
a simple
simple event
event processing
processing design
furnace gets
gets the
the signal
signal and
and switches
switches on
on or
or off
off and
and thats
thats about
about it
event stream
stream processing
processing involves
involves event
event processors
processors receiving
receiving a
a number
number of
of signals
signals from
from event
producers via
via the
the event
event listeners
listeners but
but only
only reacting
reacting when
when certain
certain criteria
criteria are
are met
for example
the thermometer
thermometer may
may send
send the
the temperature
temperature data
data every
every two
two seconds
seconds but
but the
the event
event processor
thermostat ignores
ignores all
all but
but the
the relevant
relevant switch
switch on
on data
data point
point which
which activates
activates the
the furnace
furnace only
when it
it is
is observed
complex event
event processing
processing cep
cep takes
takes the
the eda
eda to
to another
another level
level but
but enabling
enabling it
it to
to react
react to
multiple events
events under
under multiple
multiple logical
logical conditions
so for
for the
the sake
sake of
of argument
argument lets
lets say
say that
that we
only want
want to
to buy
buy us
us treasury
treasury bonds
bonds when
when the
the nikkei
nikkei hits
hits a
a certain
certain number
number and
and unemployment
figures dip
dip below
the cep
cep listens
listens to
to multiple
multiple event
event streams
streams and
and knows
knows how
how to
to correlate
them in
in a
a logical
logical manner
manner according
according to
to the
the objectives
objectives of
of the
the eda
in other
other words
words the
the cep
cep starts
to think
think like
like a
a person
person taking
taking in
in data
data from
from unrelated
unrelated sources
sources on
on the
the fly
fly differentiating
differentiating between
useful and
and useless
useless information
information and
and acting
acting accordingly
this is
is the
the ideal
ideal of
of the
the complex
complex implicit
dynamic eda
the often
often inadequate
inadequate human
human link
link in
in the
the eda
there are
are many
many instances
instances where
where the
the corporate
corporate nervous
nervous system
system of
of eda
eda loops
loops through
through a
human decision
decision making
making process
in the
the airline
airline traffic
traffic case
case it
it was
was the
the flight
flight operations
operations managers
who were
were called
called upon
upon to
to make
make critical
critical decisions
decisions about
about flight
flight prioritization
prioritization based
based on
on input
input from
the eda
in the
the antimoney
antimoney laundering
laundering case
case bank
bank fraud
fraud staff
staff were
were fed
fed information
information about
suspicious transactions
transactions for
for their
their review
review and
and decision
decision on
on actions
this edahuman
edahuman connection
makes sense
sense much
much of
of the
the time
indeed there
there is
is often
often no
no substitute
substitute for
for a
a person
person and
and his
his or
or her
awareness of
of multiple
multiple influencing
influencing factors
factors in
in a
a business
business decision
decision making
making process
intelligence is
is suitable
suitable in
in some
some cases
cases to
to make
make or
or support
support human
human decisions
decisions but
but even
even in
in cases
where decision
decision making
making can
can be
be automated
automated there
there is
is frequently
frequently the
the need
need for
for a
a person
person to
to take
responsibility for
for the
the decision
alas there
there is
is still
still no
no way
way to
to hold
hold a
a computer
computer accountable
accountable for
for the
consequences of
of a
a decision
decision that
that causes
causes an
an airliner
airliner to
to crash
crash or
or money
money to
to be
be stolen
stolen from
from a
a bank
given the
the inevitable
inevitable presence
presence of
of people
people in
in edabased
edabased decision
decision process
process flows
flows one
one of
of the
big challenges
challenges is
is relative
relative inefficiency
inefficiency of
of human
human decision
decision making
unlike computers
computers people
people are
are extraordinarily
extraordinarily inefficient
inefficient at
at decision
decision making
making and
and are
are in
in fact
quite high
high maintenance
while a
a computer
computer can
can execute
execute a
a decision
decision algorithm
algorithm at
at any
any time
time within
within a
fraction of
of a
a second
second people
people need
need to
to be
be present
present awake
awake and
and focused
focused to
to make
make a
a specific
specific decision
decision at
a specific
specific time
this is
is not
not efficient
efficient and
and in
in some
some cases
cases may
may be
be harmful
harmful to
to the
the business
business process
that the
the eda
eda is
is meant
meant to
to serve
and in
in many
many cases
cases people
people need
need to
to make
make decisions
decisions in
in groups
groups a
situation where
where the
the inefficiency
inefficiency of
of communication
communication compounds
compounds the
the delay
delay and
and quality
quality of
of the
for example
example if
if the
the air
air traffic
traffic eda
eda enables
enables rapid
rapid decisions
decisions about
about prioritizing
prioritizing flight
departure times
times but
but the
the key
key decision
decision maker
maker needs
needs to
to consult
consult with
with a
a superior
superior who
who is
is out
out to
to lunch
the whole
whole process
process could
could be
be delayed
delayed to
to the
the point
point where
where it
it compromises
compromises the
the whole
whole intent
intent of
of the
taylor eventdriven
eventdriven productivity
productivity infrastructure
in other
other cases
cases people
people may
may need
need to
to access
access external
external sources
sources of
of information
information in
in order
order to
to make
decisions that
that feed
feed into
into an
an eda
eda decision
decision making
making process
the bank
bank antifraud
antifraud staffer
staffer may
may have
to review
review scanned
scanned document
document images
images to
to compare
compare signatures
signatures on
on old
old checks
checks before
before making
making a
judgment call
call about
about whether
whether to
to escalate
escalate a
a fraud
fraud investigation
investigation or
or notify
notify law
law enforcement
this type
of manual
manual or
or semimanual
semimanual process
process can
can cause
cause harmful
harmful inefficiency
inefficiency for
for the
the eda
in this
this instance
the antifraud
antifraud staffer
staffer might
might have
have to
to manually
manually write
write down
down the
the name
name of
of the
the suspected
suspected account
account exit
the eda
eda interface
interface open
open a
a records
records management
management application
application and
and conduct
conduct a
a search
search for
for matching
after manually
manually reviewing
reviewing the
the documents
documents he
he or
or she
she may
may have
have to
to share
share the
the findings
with other
other antifraud
antifraud staffers
staffers or
or document
document review
review specialists
specialists before
before making
making a
a decision
decision to
to escalate
the case
such a
a discussion
discussion could
could involve
involve a
a combination
combination of
of email
email phone
phone fax
fax or
or instant
none of
of this
this is
is particularly
particularly horrible
horrible but
but the
the cumulative
cumulative effect
effect of
of faults
faults in
in the
communication and
and manual
manual process
process flows
flows spread
spread out
out across
across multiple
multiple concurrent
concurrent fraud
fraud cases
can result
result in
in a
a significant
significant drag
drag on
on performance
performance and
and suboptimal
suboptimal antifraud
antifraud efforts
the solution
solution to
these types
types of
of challenges
challenges is
is known
known broadly
broadly as
as productivity
productivity infrastructure
infrastructure and
and it
it is
is maturing
today at
at a
a rapid
rapid rate
overview of
of productivity
productivity infrastructure
productivity infrastructure
infrastructure pi
pi is
is an
an umbrella
umbrella term
term to
to describe
describe peoples
peoples and
and organizations
increasingly connected
connected and
and synergistic
synergistic use
use of
of phone
phone email
email internet
internet pda
pda intranet
intranet extranet
extranet and
desktop productivity
productivity applications
what was
was once
once a
a collection
collection of
of essentially
essentially siloed
siloed productivity
technologies and
and work
work flows
flows phone
phone calls
calls emails
emails searching
searching the
the web
web creating
creating documents
documents using
a pda
pda and
and so
so on
on are
are now
now merging
merging into
into a
a combined
combined infrastructure
infrastructure that
that drives
drives personal
personal and
organization productivity
in brand
brand name
name terms
terms productivity
productivity infrastructure
infrastructure is
is integrating
integrating the
functionality of
of product
product sets
sets such
such as
as microsofts
microsofts office
office system
system ciscos
ciscos voip
voip solutions
solutions ibms
lotus suite
suite and
and googles
googles docs
docs and
and gmail
gmail services
services just
just to
to name
name a
a few
to understand
understand the
the importance
importance and
and impact
impact of
of productivity
productivity infrastructure
infrastructure lets
lets use
use the
the creation
of a
a sales
sales proposal
proposal as
as a
a baseline
baseline example
example of
of the
the kind
kind of
of unstructured
unstructured type
type of
of workflow
workflow that
typically challenges
challenges information
information workers
workers to
to be
be productive
in contrast
contrast to
to structured
structured tasks
tasks such
such as
those performed
performed by
by customer
customer service
service agents
agents at
at a
a call
call center
center a
a great
great deal
deal of
of business
business work
work today
involves unstructured
unstructured tasks
tasks which
which are
are unpredictable
unpredictable in
in terms
terms of
of work
work flow
flow step
step order
order location
location of
needed information
information and
and stakeholder
stakeholder identities
identities roles
roles and
and responsibilities
in the
the case
case of
of creating
creating a
sales proposal
proposal there
there may
may be
be a
a number
number of
of different
different approval
approval patterns
patterns issues
issues to
to be
be resolved
resolved and
decision makers
makers involved
involved at
at any
any given
given time
the processes
processes people
people and
and underlying
underlying data
data and
documents required
required to
to create
create the
the sales
sales proposal
proposal may
may change
change from
from case
case to
to case
though the
process will
will contain
contain the
the basic
basic flow
flow shown
shown in
in figure
figure in
in reality
reality each
each situation
situation will
will be
be slightly
managing this
this subjectivity
subjectivity within
within a
a tight
tight time
time frame
frame is
is the
the essence
essence of
of productivity
taylor eventdriven
eventdriven productivity
productivity infrastructure
get requirements
from client
create sales
sales proposal
get requirements
from sales
sales team
and create
cost estimate
get estimate
estimate and
draft proposal
submit proposal
proposal to
sales executive
for approval
finalize proposal
submit to
to client
review proposal
legal changes
revise proposal
submit to
to legal
work with
estimator to
assure cost
cost and
schedule accuracy
review proposal
and give
give feedback
to sales
sales team
meet with
with sales
team and
and describe
modification to
in the
the process
process flow
flow of
of creating
creating a
a sales
sales proposal
proposal multiple
multiple people
people and
and groups
groups must
must collaborate
collaborate and
share documents
documents and
and information
information often
often in
in real
real time
each step
step in
in the
the creation
creation of
of the
the sales
sales proposal
proposal as
as shown
shown in
in figure
figure involves
involves multiple
people often
often from
from different
different work
work teams
teams in
in the
the sharing
sharing of
of information
information documents
documents and
the more
more efficiently
efficiently the
the people
people involved
involved in
in completing
completing this
this multistep
multistep multiplayer
process can
can work
work get
get their
their work
work done
done the
the better
better off
off the
the organization
organization will
will be
be in
in productivity
productivity terms
the impetus
impetus behind
behind the
the development
development of
of productivity
productivity infrastructure
infrastructure is
is the
the drive
drive to
to enable
enable workers
in unstructured
unstructured information
information work
work to
to get
get more
more done
done in
in less
less time
time with
with less
less expenditure
expenditure of
as figure
figure shows
shows the
the steps
steps in
in the
the sales
sales proposal
proposal development
development process
process map
map to
to capabilities
capabilities in
the productivity
productivity infrastructure
in this
this example
example voip
voip technology
technology speeds
speeds up
up the
the process
process of
connecting the
the customer
customer with
with the
the sales
sales rep
rep by
by automatically
automatically connecting
connecting a
a landline
landline call
call to
to a
a mobile
all participants
participants in
in the
the process
process use
use email
email to
to communicate
communicate with
with relevant
relevant stakeholders
stakeholders able
to share
share links
links to
to document
document repositories
repositories where
where proposal
proposal templates
templates and
and other
other data
data are
are stored
stored for
common use
a portal
portal ui
ui links
links stakeholders
stakeholders to
to the
the workflow
workflow management
management process
process as
as well
well as
collaboration sites
sites that
that contain
contain blogs
blogs and
and wikis
wikis that
that publish
publish up
up to
to date
date information
information needed
needed for
crafting the
the proposal
social computing
computing technologies
technologies allows
allows individuals
individuals to
to understand
connections between
between stakeholders
stakeholders that
that may
may not
not be
be apparent
apparent through
through job
job titles
titles or
or task
task assignments
team sites
sites enable
enable stakeholders
stakeholders to
to make
make sure
sure that
that their
their proposal
proposal is
is in
in alignment
alignment with
with team
objectives and
and business
business goals
goals or
or clarify
clarify approvals
approvals required
required for
for the
the proposal
the capability
capability to
see presence
presence enables
enables real
real time
time instant
instant messaging
messaging or
or web
web conferencing
conferencing that
that facilitates
facilitates rapid
resolution of
of open
open issues
issues for
for the
the proposal
taylor eventdriven
eventdriven productivity
productivity infrastructure
portal ui
productivity apps
word excel
team title
download propsal
im session
voice call
team sites
social computing
submit proposal
for approval
create sales
sales proposal
get requirements
from client
get estimate
estimate and
draft proposal
submit proposal
to sales
sales executive
for approval
revise proposal
submit to
to legal
finalize proposal
submit to
to client
get requirements
from sales
sales team
and create
cost estimate
productivity infrastructure
infrastructure which
which links
links workflow
workflow collaboration
collaboration email
email phone
phone mobile
mobile document
repositories and
and web
technologies such
such as
as blogs
blogs wikis
wikis mysites
mysites and
and social
social computing
computing can
drive efficiencies
efficiencies in
in the
the unstructured
unstructured multiplayer
multiplayer iterative
iterative process
process flow
flow required
required to
to create
create a
sales proposal
if everyone
everyone involved
involved in
in creating
creating the
the sales
sales proposal
proposal were
were sitting
sitting in
in the
the same
same room
room at
at all
all times
then there
there would
would be
be no
no reason
reason for
for the
the investment
investment in
in productivity
productivity infrastructure
in fact
fact thats
how business
business worked
worked until
until about
about when
when the
the telephone
telephone started
started to
to move
move people
people away
away from
physical proximity
proximity to
to their
their business
business partners
today of
of course
course the
the groups
groups of
of people
people involved
involved in
getting business
business processes
processes accomplished
accomplished are
are almost
almost never
never all
all together
together and
and certainly
certainly not
not in
in any
reliable pattern
pattern or
or schedule
schedule that
that will
will allow
allow them
them to
to get
get time
time sensitive
sensitive tasks
tasks done
and today
today as
we often
often find
find its
its not
not just
just being
being able
able to
to communicate
communicate with
with others
others in
in a
a collaborative
collaborative process
process that
makes things
things flow
flow smoothly
to get
get the
the tasks
tasks accomplished
accomplished each
each participant
participant needs
needs to
to know
know who
the other
other players
players are
are who
who they
they report
report to
to what
what their
their priorities
priorities are
on top
top of
of all
all that
that participants
also often
often need
need access
access to
to information
information that
that is
is not
not easily
easily located
located without
without the
the assistance
assistance of
of others
others in
the group
to make
make access
access to
to needed
needed information
information available
available without
without requiring
requiring time
time consuming
conversations or
or emails
emails participants
participants need
need to
to be
be able
able to
to search
search for
for and
and find
find what
what they
they are
are looking
for on
on their
their own
productivity infrastructure
infrastructure has
has the
the potential
potential to
to drive
drive more
more efficient
efficient work
work flows
flows for
unstructured tasks
tasks assuming
assuming it
it is
is implemented
implemented properly
the time
time cycle
cycle for
for completing
completing the
the entire
process flow
flow for
for creating
creating a
a sales
sales proposal
proposal for
for example
example becomes
becomes shorter
shorter with
with good
good productivity
infrastructure and
and the
the time
time investment
investment of
of each
each participant
participant goes
goes down
down as
as well
ideally the
accuracy and
and quality
quality of
of the
the final
final product
product improves
improves as
as an
an added
added bonus
however productivity
infrastructure can
can be
be complex
complex to
to deploy
deploy as
as it
it can
can raise
raise some
some odd
odd security
security and
and compliance
i mention
mention this
this here
here just
just to
to assure
assure you
you that
that i
i am
am not
not all
all starryeyed
starryeyed about
about the
the ease
ease of
deploying such
such a
a comprehensive
comprehensive and
and interconnected
interconnected infrastructure
infrastructure and
and neither
neither should
should you
nevertheless i
i do
do believe
believe that
that productivity
productivity infrastructure
infrastructure once
once in
in place
place has
has portent
portent for
for eda
taylor eventdriven
eventdriven productivity
productivity infrastructure
the potential
potential benefits
benefits of
of edapi
edapi integration
to see
see the
the potential
potential for
for benefits
benefits of
of integrating
integrating eda
eda with
with pi
pi we
we should
should think
think about
about the
advantages of
of linking
linking the
the corporate
corporate nervous
nervous system
system of
of eda
eda with
with the
the comparable
comparable organizational
nervous system
system of
of pi
with eda
eda corporate
corporate systems
systems can
can detect
detect changes
changes in
in state
state that
that affect
wherever the
the eda
eda needs
needs human
human input
input pi
pi can
can speed
speed up
up the
the edas
edas reaction
reaction time
time to
to the
state change
pi can
can also
also improve
improve the
the quality
quality of
of the
the human
human input
input because
because it
it can
can link
link people
people with
data sources
sources and
and each
each other
other with
with high
high efficiency
ultimately there
there is
is the
the potential
potential for
for the
creation of
of loops
loops of
of interaction
interaction between
between eda
eda and
and pi
pi where
where state
state changes
changes noticed
noticed by
by the
the eda
elicit reactions
reactions from
from people
people though
though the
the pi
pi who
who in
in turn
turn input
input their
their own
own changes
changes of
of state
state to
to the
portal ui
productivity apps
word excel
app a
a data
with app
app b
infrastructure pi
app a
team title
team sites
social computing
app c
modeling bpm
architecture eda
enterprise service
service bus
bus esb
app a
app b
app c
the integration
integration of
of productivity
productivity infrastructure
infrastructure and
and eda
eda connecting
connecting people
people and
and enterprise
enterprise apps
through an
an esb
esb and
and event
event web
web services
as shown
shown in
in figure
figure the
the integration
integration of
of productivity
productivity infrastructure
infrastructure and
and eda
eda can
can be
understood by
by considering
considering a
a simple
simple business
business process
process model
model that
that involves
involves inputs
inputs from
from two
enterprise systems
systems that
that must
must be
be evaluated
evaluated by
by people
event web
web services
services on
on applications
applications a
a and
b publish
publish data
data about
about their
their state
state to
to the
the esb
esb and
and on
on to
to an
an application
application built
built using
using a
a business
process modeling
modeling bpm
bpm tool
the process
process model
model calls
calls for
for people
people to
to assess
assess the
the data
data presented
presented by
taylor eventdriven
eventdriven productivity
productivity infrastructure
the states
states of
of applications
applications and
and b
b and
and for
for them
them to
to make
make a
a decision
decision about
about what
what the
the states
states mean
mean and
then take
take action
action either
either by
by instructing
instructing application
application c
c or
or terminating
terminating the
the process
process without
without taking
the pi
pi is
is designed
designed to
to notify
notify the
the decision
decision makers
makers of
of the
the change
change in
in state
once the
decision is
is made
made the
the reaction
reaction to
to the
the change
change in
in state
state flows
flows back
back to
to the
the eda
eda through
through an
an event
event web
service located
located in
in the
the pi
if there
there were
were just
just one
one person
person who
who could
could make
make the
the decision
decision called
called for
for in
in the
the process
process off
off the
top of
of his
his or
or her
her head
head there
there wouldnt
wouldnt be
be much
much need
need for
for the
the kind
kind of
of elaborate
elaborate setup
setup called
called for
for in
however lets
lets suppose
suppose that
that the
the decision
decision being
being made
made in
in the
the process
process flow
flow is
is complex
high risk
risk multistakeholder
multistakeholder and
and time
time sensitive
imagine for
for example
example that
that it
it involves
involves the
decision to
to manufacture
manufacture goods
goods with
with costly
costly inventory
the decision
decision could
could have
have impact
impact on
financial statements
statements factory
factory capacity
capacity even
even labor
labor unions
in that
that kind
kind of
of situation
situation a
a tight
integration between
between the
the decision
decision makers
makers and
and the
the eda
eda could
could have
have a
a real
real impact
impact on
on the
the business
in the
the case
case of
of a
a manufacturer
manufacturer setting
setting inventory
inventory levels
levels the
the time
time required
required to
to make
make a
a decision
the right
right decision
decision that
that is
is is
is highly
highly relevant
relevant to
to business
business success
if the
the manufacturer
manufacturer guesses
wrong and
and either
either overstocks
overstocks an
an item
item whose
whose product
product life
life is
is on
on the
the decline
decline or
or under
under stocks
stocks a
a hot
seller the
the financial
financial results
results will
will be
be less
less than
than optimal
in these
these kind
kind of
of situations
situations even
even the
difference of
of an
an hour
hour or
or two
two or
or the
the lack
lack of
of a
a few
few critical
critical nuggets
nuggets of
of business
business data
data can
can have
have an
impact on
on the
the bottom
bottom line
imagine for
for instance
instance if
if you
you decided
decided to
to order
order a
a truckload
truckload of
component parts
parts for
for the
the manufacture
manufacture of
of a
a product
product that
that was
was later
later determined
determined to
to be
be unneeded
might not
not be
be the
the end
end of
of the
the world
world but
but it
it would
would create
create an
an accounting
accounting and
and logistical
logistical hassle
hassle to
to return
the order
multiply this
this type
type of
of problem
problem across
across a
a large
large global
global company
company and
and the
the effect
effect on
earnings could
could reach
reach into
into millions
millions of
of dollars
dollars of
of direct
direct and
and indirect
indirect costs
consider for
for example
the necessity
necessity of
of engaging
engaging accounting
accounting staff
staff unnecessarily
unnecessarily due
due to
to faulty
faulty decision
decision making
in addition
addition to
to offering
offering a
a shorter
shorter decision
decision cycle
cycle time
time the
the integrated
integrated edapi
edapi approach
approach has
has the
potential to
to enable
enable a
a higher
higher quality
quality of
of decision
decision than
than the
the current
current state
state of
of integration
integration between
between pi
pi and
enterprise systems
keeping in
in mind
mind with
with this
this example
example that
that we
we are
are dealing
dealing here
here with
with decisions
that cannot
cannot be
be automated
automated through
through rules
rules engines
engines consider
consider the
the factors
factors that
that affect
affect the
the quality
quality of
decision making
making amongst
amongst multiple
multiple stakeholders
in our
our view
view the
the quality
quality of
of a
a decision
decision depends
on the
the financial
financial consequences
consequences of
of the
the decision
the decision
decision that
that saves
saves or
or makes
makes the
the most
most money
is the
the best
best one
of course
course there
there is
is a
a range
range of
of quality
quality decisions
decisions between
between best
best and
and worst
worst but
but the
goal should
should be
be to
to strive
strive for
for the
the best
best decision
decision in
in the
the largest
largest number
number of
of cases
this concept
concept is
known as
as the
the decision
decision yield
as anyone
anyone who
who has
has worked
worked in
in a
a large
large distributed
distributed organization
organization could
could tell
tell you
you the
the quality
quality of
of a
decision depends
depends on
on multiple
multiple interdependent
interdependent factors
factors including
including knowledge
knowledge of
of who
who the
stakeholders are
are for
for a
a particular
particular decision
decision equal
equal simultaneous
simultaneous access
access to
to information
information and
and equal
understanding of
of information
quality of
of decision
decision making
making also
also depends
depends on
on a
a productive
engagement of
of stakeholders
stakeholders inside
inside an
an organizational
organizational hierarchy
the higher
higher level
level stakeholder
stakeholder may
have the
the ability
ability to
to overrule
overrule the
the correct
correct decision
decision through
through innate
innate power
power and
and the
the smarter
smarter subordinate
may not
not have
have or
or want
want the
the opportunity
opportunity to
to oppose
oppose the
the incorrect
incorrect decision
of course
course productivity
infrastructure cannot
cannot help
help an
an organization
organization overcome
overcome this
this hierarchical
hierarchical flaw
flaw in
in process
process on
on its
its own
however by
by providing
providing open
open access
access to
to shared
shared opinions
opinions and
and corporate
corporate knowledge
knowledge and
and real
real time
access to
to multiple
multiple points
points of
of view
view the
the hierarchy
hierarchy effect
effect can
can be
be mitigated
mitigated in
in favor
favor of
of discussion
discussion and
group learning
integrating eda
eda and
and pi
pi can
can improve
improve the
the efficiency
efficiency of
of the
the information
information workers
workers who
who are
tasked with
with making
making business
business decisions
ultimately this
this can
can result
result in
in reductions
reductions in
in overhead
overhead or
increased utilization
utilization of
of staff
staff for
for strategic
strategic business
business purposes
i felt
felt this
this point
point was
was worth
worth making
because i
i have
have heard
heard many
many dialogues
dialogues about
about the
the value
value of
of soa
soa and
and eda
eda that
that make
make the
the assumption
that there
there is
is a
a high
high efficiency
efficiency analysis
analysis apparatus
apparatus available
available to
to parse
parse the
the output
output of
of these
these systems
taylor james
james and
and raden
raden neil
neil smart
smart enough
enough systems
systems prentice
prentice hall
taylor eventdriven
eventdriven productivity
productivity infrastructure
this is
is not
not necessarily
necessarily so
so and
and indeed
indeed a
a lot
lot of
of approaches
approaches to
to soa
soa dead
dead end
end into
into an
an empty
empty seat
called stakeholders
stakeholders and
and fail
fail to
to generate
generate good
good roi
roi as
as a
a result
the productivity
productivity infrastructure
infrastructure itself
itself can
can function
function as
as an
an event
event producer
producer as
as well
a simple
example might
might be
be the
the presence
presence of
of a
a stakeholder
stakeholder being
being announced
announced as
as an
an event
another example
which touches
touches on
on an
an exciting
exciting new
new area
area of
of pi
pi is
is the
the concept
concept of
of active
active search
search within
within the
enterprise and
and its
its potential
potential to
to function
function as
as an
an event
event producer
producer from
from within
within the
the pi
portal ui
productivity apps
word excel
team title
team sites
social computing
infrastructure pi
eda apps
eda apps
app data
query server
index server
eda apps
eda apps
active search
search involves
involves the
the use
use of
of an
an enterprise
enterprise search
search solution
solution which
which crawls
crawls repositories
repositories of
unstructured data
data indexes
indexes them
them and
and then
then sends
sends rss
rss feeds
feeds in
in response
response to
to preset
preset search
search queries
the rss
rss feeds
feeds which
which function
function to
to indicate
indicate the
the presence
presence of
of specific
specific information
information in
in unstructured
data can
can serve
serve as
as event
event producers
figure depicts
depicts an
an enterprise
enterprise search
search solution
solution allowing
allowing a
a productivity
productivity infrastructure
infrastructure to
to function
function as
an event
event producer
to see
see how
how this
this works
works we
we must
must first
first understand
understand the
the process
process of
of an
an enterprise
search solution
solution which
which is
is an
an increasingly
increasingly common
common fixture
fixture in
in todays
todays enterprises
like a
a web
search engine
engine the
the enterprise
enterprise search
search solution
solution contains
contains three
three core
core elements
elements a
a query
query server
server an
index server
server and
and crawlers
crawlers which
which read
read through
through documents
documents and
and other
other data
data sources
sources and
and feed
feed their
findings into
into the
the index
index server
the enterprise
enterprise search
search index
index like
like their
their corollaries
corollaries in
in the
the web
search world
world is
is a
a massive
massive and
and exhaustive
exhaustive directory
directory of
of information
information located
located within
within the
the enterprise
the enterprise
enterprise search
search solution
solution operates
operates by
by taking
taking queries
queries from
from end
end users
users through
through a
a front
front end
end ui
eg a
a search
search box
box in
in a
a portal
portal interface
interface sending
sending the
the queries
queries through
through the
the query
query server
server to
to the
the index
and returning
returning matching
matching results
results back
back to
to the
the end
end user
user through
through the
the ui
taylor eventdriven
eventdriven productivity
productivity infrastructure
some enterprise
enterprise search
search solutions
solutions offer
offer the
the ability
ability to
to conduct
conduct active
active search
search a
a process
wherein certain
certain queries
queries are
are stored
stored and
and continually
continually rerun
rerun with
with the
the search
search results
results being
being published
to end
end users
users through
through rss
rss real
real simple
simple syndication
syndication a
a form
form of
of xml
so for
for example
example an
an end
user in
in a
a real
real estate
estate development
development firm
firm could
could use
use an
an enterprise
enterprise search
search solution
solution to
to query
query the
companys internal
internal document
document libraries
libraries for
for a
a data
data that
that matches
matches the
the keyword
keyword of
of a
a particular
if the
the user
user types
types chelsea
chelsea into
into the
the search
search box
box on
on the
the portal
portal ui
ui that
that query
query will
return any
any documents
documents or
or other
other indexed
indexed data
data files
files that
that contain
contain the
the word
word chelsea
chelsea and
and the
the user
could then
then learn
learn about
about projects
projects or
or people
people involving
involving chelsea
in an
an active
active search
search mode
mode the
the user
could store
store the
the chelsea
chelsea search
search and
and instruct
instruct the
the search
search solution
solution to
to issue
issue him
him an
an rss
rss feed
feed every
day that
that contained
contained the
the latest
latest search
search results
results for
for chelsea
chelsea without
without the
the user
user having
having to
to run
run the
the query
every day
day himself
from an
an eda
eda perspective
perspective it
it is
is possible
possible to
to imagine
imagine how
how this
this active
active search
search function
function could
turn into
into an
an event
event producer
the stored
stored query
query and
and resulting
resulting rss
rss feed
feed could
could be
be designed
designed to
publish changes
changes in
in state
state that
that exist
exist within
within unstructured
unstructured data
data environments
in our
our real
real estate
example the
the query
query might
might feed
feed into
into an
an algorithm
algorithm that
that determines
determines whether
whether specific
specific people
people or
company divisions
divisions are
are working
working in
in chelsea
chelsea a
a change
change in
in state
state that
that could
could drive
drive action
action through
through the
a crm
crm system
system attached
attached to
to the
the eda
eda could
could flag
flag the
the activity
activity in
in chelsea
chelsea based
based on
on the
the event
data published
published through
through the
the enterprise
enterprise search
search solution
solution and
and pi
pi for
for follow
follow up
up by
by account
account executives
in the
the neighborhood
there is
is even
even the
the potential
potential for
for eda
eda and
and pi
pi to
to inter
inter operate
operate as
as looping
looping connected
connected halves
halves of
of a
bigger eda
events published
published out
out through
through the
the eda
eda inform
inform stakeholders
stakeholders and
and drive
drive action
through the
the pi
pi which
which in
in turn
turn publishes
publishes back
back event
event data
data about
about stakeholder
stakeholder activities
activities presence
presence and
data creation
creation through
through the
the pi
admittedly this
this level
level of
of sophistication
sophistication is
is fairly
fairly futuristic
futuristic even
even for
this forward
forward looking
looking paper
however i
i believe
believe the
the potential
potential for
for productivity
productivity improvements
improvements and
information worker
worker empowerment
empowerment through
through the
the integration
integration of
of eda
eda and
and pi
pi are
are powerful
powerful and
prodco an
an edapi
edapi integration
integration scenario
to see
see how
how eda
eda and
and pi
pi could
could be
be integrated
integrated i
i will
will use
use the
the example
example of
of a
a custom
manufacturing business
in order
order to
to optimize
optimize the
the learning
learning experience
experience w
w are
are going
going to
to keep
keep the
example fairly
fairly simple
simple and
and focus
focus on
on the
the aspects
aspects of
of this
this hypothetical
hypothetical business
business that
that are
are most
most general
to all
all businesses
this company
company which
which ill
ill call
call prodco
prodco could
could stand
stand in
in for
for a
a mass
mass of
of businesses
that perform
perform custom
custom services
services on
on a
a jobbyjob
jobbyjob basis
within prodco
prodco i
i will
will focus
focus on
on the
the sales
proposal and
and order
order fulfillment
fulfillment process
process to
to highlight
highlight the
the potential
potential edapi
edapi integration
sales proposal
proposal and
and order
order fulfillment
fulfillment at
at prodco
the sales
sales and
and fulfillment
fulfillment process
process at
at prodco
prodco is
is touched
touched by
by a
a group
group of
of teams
teams and
and individual
to get
get a
a proposal
proposal out
out to
to a
a client
client and
and then
then fulfill
fulfill on
on the
the order
order the
the sales
sales marketing
production legal
legal finance
finance and
and csuite
csuite executives
executives need
need to
to be
be involved
sales of
of course
course is
is the
main point
point of
of contact
contact with
with the
the client
marketing engages
engages in
in the
the process
process to
to assist
assist with
with pricing
pricing and
discount programs
programs that
that may
may be
be tied
tied to
to particular
particular campaigns
finance is
is involved
involved to
to assure
assure that
the pricing
pricing and
and costing
costing of
of the
the job
job are
are appropriate
appropriate and
and that
that the
the hr
hr aspects
aspects of
of the
the job
job are
are properly
taylor eventdriven
eventdriven productivity
productivity infrastructure
finance also
also weighs
weighs in
in with
with sourcing
sourcing decisions
decisions and
and execution
production is
responsible for
for actually
actually doing
doing the
the work
the csuite
csuite has
has oversight
oversight especially
especially if
if the
the job
job is
is large
or strategically
strategically significant
figure shows
shows the
the essential
essential flow
flow for
for prodcos
prodcos proposalfulfillmentassessment
proposalfulfillmentassessment process
sales team
team drafts
drafts the
the proposal
proposal and
and circulates
circulates it
it through
through reviews
reviews by
by legal
legal production
production finance
finance and
the csuite
if there
there are
are revisions
revisions the
the review
review cycle
cycle may
may repeat
repeat in
in whole
whole or
or part
once the
the client
approves the
the proposal
proposal the
the job
job goes
goes into
into production
production and
and is
is fulfilled
finance becomes
becomes involved
again for
for sourcing
sourcing of
of materials
materials and
and overseeing
overseeing labor
labor expenses
expenses as
as well
well as
as invoicing
invoicing and
and collection
at the
the end
end of
of the
the process
process flow
flow the
the finance
finance department
department publishes
publishes the
the results
results of
of the
the job
job if
if it
it made
or lost
lost money
money compared
compared to
to the
the estimate
estimate and
and all
all other
other departments
departments receive
receive this
this information
information and
update their
their own
own knowledge
knowledge bases
or not
proposal through
through fulfillment
fulfillment and
and assessment
next time
knowledge base
base on
reasons for
for loss
match proposal
proposal to
sales discount
next time
provide compete
next time
next time
of job
job results
next time
prodcos process
process flow
flow for
for creating
creating a
a sales
sales proposal
proposal fulfilling
fulfilling the
the job
job and
and assessing
assessing its
there are
are a
a couple
couple of
of flaws
flaws in
in this
this process
process design
design though
though to
to be
be fair
fair to
to prodco
prodco its
its about
about as
good as
as it
it can
can be
be given
given the
the current
current state
state of
of technology
for one
one thing
thing the
the review
review loops
loops for
for the
proposal may
may be
be a
a lot
lot more
more complicated
complicated and
and subjective
subjective than
than any
any process
process model
model can
can approximate
and the
the assumption
assumption that
that the
the process
process flow
flow makes
makes is
is that
that everyone
everyone has
has access
access to
to relevant
information on
on a
a timely
timely basis
the marketing
marketing department
department may
may not
not know
know for
for example
example that
certain types
types of
of projects
projects lose
lose money
money so
so they
they ought
ought to
to be
be dropped
dropped from
from the
the discount
discount plan
plan and
and so
most problematic
problematic though
though is
is that
that the
the process
process is
is very
very inefficient
the people
people and
and groups
involved in
in this
this process
process waste
waste time
time managing
managing and
and finding
finding the
the information
information they
they need
need to
to get
get the
process finished
finished as
as well
well as
as communicating
communicating with
with one
one another
a closer
closer look
look at
at the
the way
way prodco
has set
set up
up its
its productivity
productivity software
software and
and enterprise
enterprise architecture
architecture can
can reveal
reveal some
some of
of the
the causes
causes of
this inefficiency
taylor eventdriven
eventdriven productivity
productivity infrastructure
prod cos
cos current
current productivity
productivity tools
figure shows
shows how
how prodco
prodco has
has set
set up
up its
its productivity
productivity tools
tools and
and enterprise
enterprise applications
sales and
and marketing
marketing teams
teams have
have access
access to
to the
the crm
crm system
system while
while finance
finance and
and production
production use
use the
erp solution
collaboration inside
inside each
each team
team and
and between
between teams
teams is
is a
a fairly
fairly adhoc
adhoc affair
affair with
stakeholders emailing
emailing files
files back
back and
and forth
forth and
and saving
saving them
them on
on departmental
departmental shared
shared drives
drives that
each team
team can
can access
access through
through a
a portal
portal interface
it is
is possible
possible for
for a
a non
non teammember
teammember to
to access
access a
portal but
but that
that person
person must
must first
first be
be granted
granted access
access rights
rights by
by a
a departmental
departmental administrator
team portal
portal has
has calendaring
calendaring capabilities
capabilities and
and everyone
everyone is
is able
able to
to schedule
schedule meeting
meeting the
the email
email suite
the csuite
csuite executives
executives use
use a
a business
business intelligence
intelligence dashboard
dashboard that
that is
is fed
fed by
by the
the finance
finance staff
because it
it does
does not
not tie
tie directly
directly into
into the
the erp
erp system
the prodco
prodco teams
teams involved
involved in
in creating
creating sales
sales proposals
proposals and
and fulfilling
fulfilling orders
orders use
use two
two enterprise
systems crm
crm and
and erp
erp and
and a
a slew
slew of
of adhoc
adhoc productivity
productivity solutions
solutions including
including share
share drives
email and
and voice
voice communication
prodcos productivity
productivity solutions
solutions and
and enterprise
enterprise applications
applications are
are too
too siloed
siloed to
to be
be highly
there is
is no
no efficient
efficient way
way to
to share
share information
information or
or documents
documents across
across the
the entire
entire company
at least
least in
in a
a way
way that
that does
does not
not open
open access
access to
to the
the document
document to
to every
every single
single employee
employee which
nobody wants
connections between
between systems
systems are
are haphazard
haphazard or
or nonexistent
so for
for example
there is
is no
no way
way to
to seamlessly
seamlessly import
import the
the terms
terms of
of a
a sales
sales proposal
proposal into
into the
the erp
erp system
it must
must be
reentered when
when the
the order
order goes
goes into
into production
approvals on
on each
each phase
phase of
of a
a proposal
proposal and
and its
subsequent production
production phase
phase are
are conducted
conducted by
by email
email and
and phone
the erp
erp system
system does
does have
automated approval
approval functions
functions where
where executives
executives can
can sign
sign off
off on
on purchase
purchase orders
orders overtime
schedules and
and so
so forth
however the
the problem
problem is
is that
that these
these approvers
approvers must
must often
often communicate
with others
others such
such as
as the
the legal
legal department
department before
before proceeding
the efficiency
efficiency of
of the
the automated
approval function
function is
is mitigated
mitigated by
by the
the slow
slow unstructured
unstructured process
process of
of communication
communication within
within the
and there
there is
is no
no way
way to
to keep
keep track
track of
of recurring
recurring patterns
patterns of
of unstructured
unstructured workflow
workflow that
could save
save time
time in
in the
the future
for example
example imagine
imagine that
that certain
certain types
types of
of orders
orders require
require materials
materials to
to be
be sourced
sourced from
the procurement
procurement staff
staff has
has learned
learned from
from experience
experience that
that in
in the
the summer
summer months
months the
the heat
inside the
the trucks
trucks coming
coming from
from mexico
mexico is
is so
so intense
intense that
that it
it can
can ruin
ruin the
the parts
parts in
in transit
they know
now either
either to
to order
order these
these parts
parts in
in advance
advance or
or actually
actually pay
pay for
for a
a refrigerated
refrigerated truck
of course
course this
is more
more expensive
expensive though
though paying
paying the
the expense
expense is
is preferable
preferable to
to delays
delays and
and missing
missing parts
the procurement
procurement staff
staff has
has no
no way
way to
to keep
keep this
this relevant
relevant fact
fact in
in front
front of
of all
all stakeholders
stakeholders at
at all
all times
taylor eventdriven
eventdriven productivity
productivity infrastructure
the erp
erp system
system has
has a
a notes
notes section
section where
where the
the procurement
procurement staff
staff can
can write
write down
down a
a reminder
reminder to
order a
a refrigerated
refrigerated truck
truck with
with that
that sku
yet when
when the
the sales
sales team
team wants
wants to
to make
make a
a deal
deal or
or the
marketing department
department wants
wants to
to create
create a
a discount
discount campaign
campaign they
they do
do so
so without
without realizing
realizing that
that their
margin is
is lower
lower than
than normal
normal on
on the
the item
item that
that includes
includes the
the mexican
mexican components
the csuite
csuite too
may lack
lack visibility
visibility into
into the
the issue
issue and
and wonder
wonder why
why margins
margins are
are low
low on
on this
this type
type of
of product
prodcos proposed
proposed eda
being wise
wise and
and forwardlooking
forwardlooking prodco
prodco has
has decided
decided to
to invest
invest in
in shifting
shifting its
its architecture
towards soa
soa and
and eda
figure shows
shows how
how this
this would
would work
prodco would
would install
install an
enterprise service
service bus
bus as
as an
an integration
integration layer
layer that
that exposes
exposes the
the functionality
functionality of
of both
both the
the crm
crm and
erp systems
systems as
as sets
sets of
of web
web services
a portal
portal server
server would
would provide
provide access
access to
to the
the various
department portals
portals and
and also
also make
make certain
certain crm
crm and
and erp
erp functions
functions available
available to
to users
users who
who didnt
have access
access to
to either
either the
the crm
crm or
or erp
erp client
the departmental
departmental portals
portals themselves
themselves would
would remain
essentially untouched
untouched though
though their
their provisioning
provisioning could
could now
now be
be centrally
centrally controlled
controlled and
and extension
of existing
existing portals
portals could
could be
be governed
governed more
more thoroughly
thoroughly than
than before
communications would
remain a
a silo
portal server
prodco is
is considering
considering a
a move
move towards
towards an
an soa
soa and
and eda
eda where
where the
the crm
crm and
and erpfinance
applications would
would be
be exposed
exposed as
as web
web services
services through
through the
the enterprise
enterprise service
service bus
departmental portals
portals would
would be
be accessed
accessed through
through a
a central
central portal
portal server
server though
though their
their content
content and
administration would
would remain
remain essentially
essentially siloed
the communication
communication infrastructure
infrastructure would
would remain
to appreciate
appreciate how
how the
the eda
eda approach
approach would
would work
work for
for prodco
prodco lets
lets look
look a
a small
small part
part of
of the
production process
process the
the ordering
ordering of
of supplies
supplies based
based on
on a
a bill
bill of
of materials
figure shows
shows the
the flow
for the
the bill
bill of
of materials
materials bom
bom process
process as
as well
well as
as the
the matchup
matchup between
between the
the process
process steps
steps and
and the
web services
services enabled
enabled in
in the
the eda
certain steps
steps though
though such
such as
as selecting
selecting the
the winning
winning bids
bids from
the rfq
rfq are
are still
still human
human processes
processes and
and cannot
cannot be
be fully
fully automated
other steps
steps such
such as
requesting procurement
procurement may
may be
be semiautomated
semiautomated wherein
wherein the
the erp
erp system
system does
does all
all the
the work
work once
a person
person has
has approved
approved the
the request
request for
for rfq
taylor eventdriven
eventdriven productivity
productivity infrastructure
bill of
of materials
materials process
create bom
rfq and
and ordering
create list
human process
event processors
crm edaappui
erp eda
eda app
app ui
event listeners
event listeners
prodcos eda
eda exemplified
exemplified through
through the
the process
process flow
flow of
of creating
creating a
a bill
bill of
of materials
materials and
requesting quotes
quotes rfqs
rfqs from
from suppliers
as shown
shown in
in figure
figure the
the bill
bill of
of materials
materials process
process consists
consists of
of several
several automatedsemiautomated
automatedsemiautomated steps
steps that
that work
work off
off the
the event
event web
web services
services as
as well
well a
a few
few that
that are
are completely
completely human
sales proposals
proposals exist
exist in
in the
the crm
crm system
system but
but when
when a
a customer
customer makes
makes the
the decision
decision to
to buy
buy under
the new
new eda
eda approach
approach the
the crm
crm systems
systems convertorder
convertorder web
web service
service publishes
publishes the
the state
state change
of the
the proposal
proposal from
from pending
pending to
to accepted
the event
event listener
listener in
in the
the erp
erp eda
eda application
receives this
this state
state change
change information
information and
and in
in reaction
reaction takes
takes the
the order
order data
data from
from the
the transfers
transfers it
into the
the erp
erp system
this step
step could
could be
be fully
fully automated
automated meaning
meaning it
it could
could occur
occur simply
simply because
of programmatic
programmatic instruction
instruction or
or it
it could
could be
be semiautomated
semiautomated where
where a
a person
person gets
gets a
a signal
signal through
the ui
ui that
that the
the order
order is
is ready
ready to
to convert
convert and
and the
the human
human action
action of
of clicking
clicking a
a button
button on
on the
the interface
actually completes
completes the
the transfer
transfer from
from crm
crm to
to erp
erp systems
the process
process flow
flow then
then follows
follows a
a series
series of
of pubsub
pubsub steps
the convertorder
convertorder web
web service
service in
the crm
crm system
system results
results in
in the
the creation
creation of
of a
a new
new order
order for
for production
production in
in the
the erp
erp system
neworder web
web services
services publishes
publishes that
that its
its state
state is
is new
new which
which is
is listened
listened to
to by
by the
the createbom
create bill
bill of
of materials
materials web
web service
the web
web services
services checkinv
checkinv check
check inventory
inventory and
neededmat needed
needed materials
materials create
create a
a list
list of
of materials
materials that
that are
are needed
needed for
for the
the job
job but
but which
which are
not in
in stock
the dorfq
dorfq web
web service
service is
is activated
activated by
by the
the neededmat
neededmat web
web services
services publishing
of its
its change
change of
of state
state from
from nothing
nothing to
to list
each of
of these
these web
web services
services can
can be
be invoked
manually or
or through
through a
a automated
automated process
sending the
the rfqs
rfqs out
out to
to vendors
vendors though
though is
is a
a manual
manual step
step even
even if
if the
the actual
actual work
work is
is done
done by
the system
a procurement
procurement person
person should
should be
be active
active the
the process
process to
to make
make sure
sure that
that the
the rfq
rfq goes
to suppliers
suppliers who
who are
are appropriate
appropriate for
for the
the materials
materials needed
however even
even this
this could
could be
be a
a fully
automated process
process that
that reacts
reacts to
to the
the event
event of
of dorfq
dorfq by
by generating
generating a
a request
request for
for quote
taylor eventdriven
eventdriven productivity
productivity infrastructure
electronically and
and sending
sending it
it to
to preapproved
preapproved vendors
vendors through
through email
email or
or online
online notification
notification calling
them to
to a
a vendor
vendor portal
assuming the
the eda
eda is
is implemented
implemented correctly
correctly it
it should
should be
be able
able to
to confer
confer some
some advantages
advantages to
prodcos operations
it renders
renders the
the back
back end
end more
more flexible
flexible than
than a
a conventionally
conventionally architected
the eda
eda makes
makes it
it simpler
simpler faster
faster and
and cheaper
cheaper to
to implement
implement changes
changes in
in the
the process
process flow
for rfqs
rfqs and
and enables
enables streamlined
streamlined reporting
reporting and
and aggregation
aggregation of
of data
data for
for consolidation
consolidation of
purchase orders
orders and
and vendor
vendor management
the standardsbased
standardsbased interfaces
interfaces to
to the
the end
end user
user are
are also
potentially more
more cost
cost effective
effective to
to maintain
maintain and
and modify
modify as
as changes
changes take
take place
place in
in the
the process
process flow
over time
however the
the human
human decision
decision elements
elements of
of the
the process
process flow
flow are
are not
not much
much affected
affected by
by the
the act
act of
of soliciting
soliciting bids
bids from
from vendors
vendors is
is still
still either
either wholly
wholly or
or partly
partly human
human as
as is
is the
selection of
of winning
winning bids
it would
would be
be possible
possible to
to automate
automate both
both of
of those
those processes
processes though
though and
even include
include some
some fairly
fairly sophisticated
sophisticated rules
rules sets
sets to
to assure
assure best
best practices
practices in
in procurement
the human
human beings
beings out
out of
of the
the picture
picture for
for selecting
selecting vendors
vendors for
for example
example might
might occur
occur if
if prodco
could implement
implement a
a set
set of
of business
business rules
rules that
that awarded
awarded contracts
contracts to
to vendors
vendors with
with the
the lowest
lowest price
the best
best ranking
ranking for
for quality
quality from
from production
production operations
operations and
and a
a consistent
consistent track
track record
record of
of on
on time
if this
this automation
automation were
were implemented
implemented the
the bill
bill of
of materials
materials process
process could
could proceed
seamlessly without
without the
the messiness
messiness and
and delay
delay of
of human
human actions
this might
might be
be a
a desirable
desirable goal
and it
it might
might even
even be
be possible
yet if
if we
we are
are realistic
realistic and
and look
look at
at our
our own
own experiences
experiences in
corporate life
life we
we will
will realize
realize that
that this
this level
level of
of automation
automation is
is not
not practical
practical or
or wise
returning to
to our
our example
example of
of goods
goods from
from mexico
mexico that
that melt
melt in
in hot
hot trucks
trucks in
in the
the arizona
arizona sun
and im
im not
not making
making this
this up
up either
it happened
happened to
to a
a colleague
colleague of
of mine
mine we
we can
can see
see that
that there
there are
still instances
instances where
where there
there is
is a
a need
need for
for subjective
subjective human
human knowledge
knowledge to
to get
get to
to the
the best
best possible
business result
result from
from a
a process
process flow
flow even
even with
with an
an advanced
advanced eda
eda in
in place
and this
this is
is where
where the
efficiency of
of prodcos
prodcos eda
eda starts
starts to
to falter
as the
the automated
automated or
or semiautomated
semiautomated process
process of
of converting
converting an
an order
order from
from proposal
proposal to
to sale
and the
the derivative
derivative bill
bill of
of materialsrfq
materialsrfq steps
steps cascade
cascade out
out from
from the
the entry
entry of
of the
the sale
sale into
into the
the erp
system we
we still
still dead
dead end
end at
at a
a person
person or
or group
group that
that needs
needs to
to decide
decide which
which vendors
vendors get
get to
to bid
on the
the order
in the
the best
best case
case scenario
scenario the
the vendor
vendor selection
selection is
is done
done by
by an
an experienced
experienced person
who understands
understands all
all the
the subjective
subjective issues
issues involved
involved and
and acts
acts promptly
promptly and
and decisively
in a
a less
rewarding scenario
scenario the
the decision
decision is
is made
made by
by a
a distributed
distributed group
group of
of people
people who
who may
may individually
lack the
the knowledge
knowledge of
of the
the subjective
subjective challenges
challenges to
to getting
getting an
an optimal
optimal procurement
procurement accomplished
there are
are many
many scenarios
scenarios in
in between
between such
such as
as an
an inexperienced
inexperienced procurement
procurement person
person who
who cannot
process the
the vendor
vendor selection
selection quickly
quickly due
due to
to lack
lack of
of information
information or
or one
one who
who makes
makes the
the wrong
decisions based
based on
on lack
lack of
of knowledge
knowledge or
or even
even a
a lack
lack of
of awareness
awareness that
that certain
certain types
types of
knowledge are
are required
required to
to make
make the
the decision
in this
this situation
situation we
we see
see the
the promotion
promotion of
of the
person who
who knows
knows that
that one
one must
must request
request a
a refrigerated
refrigerated truck
truck from
from mexico
mexico and
and his
his or
or her
replacement being
being a
a person
person who
who doesnt
doesnt have
have any
any idea
idea that
that such
such a
a problem
problem exists
the new
person will
will proceed
proceed with
with the
the best
best of
of intentions
intentions to
to repeat
repeat a
a mistake
mistake that
that has
has long
long since
since been
there are
are several
several aspects
aspects to
to this
this poor
poor quality
quality decision
decision cycle
if the
the communication
communication process
that connects
connects the
the people
people in
in the
the decision
decision loop
loop is
is detached
detached from
from the
the eda
eda and
and procurement
interfaces then
then the
the communication
communication itself
itself risks
risks being
being inefficient
inefficient and
and inaccurate
for example
imagine that
that the
the vendor
vendor selection
selection process
process is
is dependent
dependent on
on people
people reading
reading long
long email
email threads
threads from
the bottom
bottom up
up assessing
assessing the
the situation
situation and
and making
making recommendations
surely weve
weve all
all been
there this
this communication
communication pattern
pattern is
is less
less than
than ideal
ideal for
for rendering
rendering a
a consistent
consistent rapid
rapid set
set of
correct decisions
however due
due to
to the
the subjective
subjective nature
nature of
of most
most unstructured
unstructured processes
processes such
such as
selecting a
a vendor
vendor using
using group
group knowledge
knowledge as
as the
the basis
basis for
for the
the decision
decision email
email threading
threading is
probably unavoidable
at the
the very
very least
least it
it is
is clumsy
clumsy and
and unreliable
even if
if everyone
everyone involved
is paying
paying attention
attention and
and very
very well
well informed
informed the
the process
process could
could bog
bog down
down if
if one
one or
or more
taylor eventdriven
eventdriven productivity
productivity infrastructure
participants is
is unreachable
unreachable or
or unfindable
unfindable to
to the
the extent
extent that
that production
production orders
orders could
could back
back up
due to
to communication
communication breakdowns
breakdowns in
in the
the procurement
procurement process
prodcos eda
eda also
also lacks
lacks the
the capacity
capacity to
to store
store organizational
organizational knowledge
the specialized
knowledge about
about the
the subtleties
subtleties of
of procurement
procurement is
is not
not stored
stored in
in a
a fashion
fashion where
where stakeholders
stakeholders can
easily find
find or
or use
use the
the information
one enterprising
enterprising person
person might
might create
create a
a procurement
procurement best
practices document
document that
that he
he or
or she
she can
can use
use and
and perhaps
perhaps even
even share
share with
with others
but if
if that
document is
is lost
lost on
on a
a shared
shared network
network drive
drive its
its contents
contents may
may never
never reach
reach other
other stakeholders
stakeholders who
need it
if the
the creator
creator of
of the
the document
document moves
moves on
on the
the document
document will
will likely
likely disappear
dedicated and
and wellmanaged
wellmanaged procurement
procurement team
team could
could also
also create
create an
an intranet
intranet site
site on
on the
the portal
server for
for collection
collection of
of practices
practices and
and settling
settling of
of decision
decision issues
this approach
approach has
has some
some benefits
over a
a totally
totally uncoordinated
uncoordinated procurement
procurement method
method but
but it
it might
might still
still result
result in
in time
time lags
lags and
communication mistakes
mistakes if
if the
the stakeholders
stakeholders still
still need
need to
to toggle
toggle back
back and
and forth
forth between
between their
intranet team
team site
site email
email and
and the
the actual
actual erp
erp system
system to
to make
make and
and implement
implement decisions
at the
very least
least it
it is
is a
a largely
largely unrepeatable
unrepeatable pattern
the integration
integration of
of prodcos
prodcos productivity
productivity infrastructure
infrastructure with
with its
its eda
eda is
is a
a major
major contributor
contributor to
solving this
this dilemma
dilemma where
where lost
lost knowledge
knowledge lack
lack of
of knowledge
knowledge and
and poor
poor communication
mitigates the
the positive
positive impact
impact of
of an
an eda
eda and
and improvement
improvement business
business process
process management
integration cannot
cannot solve
solve this
this problem
problem all
all by
by itself
itself of
of course
there are
are myriad
myriad challenges
challenges related
to training
training knowledge
knowledge preservation
preservation best
best practices
practices documentation
documentation and
and so
so forth
forth that
that are
are required
to assure
assure good
good human
human decision
decision cycles
cycles in
in a
a process
process flow
however the
the chances
chances of
of prodco
attaining the
the best
best human
human decisions
decisions in
in the
the eda
eda environment
environment are
are greatly
greatly enhanced
enhanced by
by the
integration of
of the
the eda
eda and
and the
the pi
without this
this integration
integration the
the likelihood
likelihood that
that prodco
prodco will
optimize the
the organizational
organizational impact
impact of
of the
the eda
eda are
are slight
a better
better proposal
proposal edapi
edapi integration
i may
may be
be displaying
displaying some
some hubris
hubris by
by characterizing
characterizing edapi
edapi integration
integration as
as a
a better
better proposal
the truth
truth is
is its
its a
a very
very new
new area
area and
and still
still quite
quite theoretical
theoretical even
even more
more so
so than
than eda
eda which
which is
itself somewhat
somewhat more
more of
of a
a vision
vision than
than a
a reality
however as
as we
we go
go through
through the
the potentialities
potentialities of
edapi integration
integration in
in the
the prodco
prodco case
case i
i think
think you
you will
will see
see some
some exciting
exciting possibilities
possibilities for
improving the
the way
way work
work gets
gets done
done in
in practical
practical terms
unstructured tasks
tasks such
such as
as procurement
procurement staffers
staffers rounding
rounding up
up best
best practices
practices data
data from
from diverse
stakeholders tend
tend to
to be
be messy
messy and
and unpredictable
given that
that reality
reality it
it is
is challenging
challenging to
to design
any kind
kind of
of technological
technological solution
solution that
that will
will consistently
consistently solve
solve the
the problem
problem and
and make
make the
unstructured tasks
tasks faster
faster simpler
simpler and
and cheaper
cheaper to
to execute
in fact
fact there
there really
really isnt
isnt much
much in
in the
way of
of standard
standard language
language or
or practice
practice to
to even
even describe
describe the
the kind
kind of
of problems
problems that
that it
it solutions
solutions need
to solve
solve for
for unstructured
unstructured tasks
for this
this reason
reason i
i am
am going
going to
to attempt
attempt to
to work
work backwards
backwards from
identification of
of unstructured
unstructured task
task problems
problems to
to causes
causes that
that can
can be
be remedied
remedied by
by edapi
integration and
and build
build a
a solution
solution approach
approach from
from there
first what
what problems
problems does
does prodco
prodco face
face with
with procurement
procurement and
and which
which can
can be
be traced
traced back
back to
inefficient unstructured
unstructured tasks
tasks and
and poor
poor eda
eda integration
integration wasting
wasting of
of time
time ranks
ranks high
high on
on the
the list
because slower
slower procurement
procurement typically
typically translates
translates into
into slower
slower production
then there
there is
is the
the loss
loss of
knowledge over
over time
time which
which can
can result
result in
in slow
slow procurement
procurement or
or other
other costly
costly errors
errors in
in production
then there
there are
are just
just plain
plain mistakes
mistakes made
made through
through poor
poor communication
communication or
or inadequate
inadequate decision
making processes
backing out
out of
of these
these problems
problems we
we can
can get
get to
to a
a set
set of
of business
business objectives
objectives for
for the
the integrated
prodco needs
needs to
to have
have rapid
rapid procurement
procurement that
that is
is accurate
they need
need high
high quality
quality and
consistent knowledge
knowledge transfer
transfer as
as team
team members
members move
move in
in and
and out
out of
of roles
and they
they need
taylor eventdriven
eventdriven productivity
productivity infrastructure
transparent welldocumented
welldocumented decision
decision processes
processes that
that result
result in
in accurate
accurate timely
timely procurement
without imposing
imposing an
an undue
undue administrative
administrative burden
this last
last point
point is
is relevant
relevant because
because it
it is
is almost
always possible
possible to
to cure
cure a
a process
process by
by larding
larding it
it up
up with
with many
many onerous
onerous administrative
administrative tasks
tasks and
the net
net effect
effect though
though is
is usually
usually counter
counter to
to the
the goal
goal of
of efficiency
getting the
the right
process in
in place
place without
without choking
choking the
the team
team members
members with
with bureaucracy
bureaucracy is
is a
a fine
fine balancing
balancing act
bill of
of materials
materials process
rfq and
and ordering
create list
t fo
mm view
view cy
c yc
create bom
review proc
team member
with knowledge
emailimproductivity tools
where teams
can share
team sites
social computing
real time
multimedia approvals
and po
people search
knowledge search
matching the
the rfq
rfq process
process flow
flow to
to a
a productivity
productivity infrastructure
infrastructure showing
showing the
the connections
between process
process steps
steps and
and collaboration
collaboration communication
communication and
and knowledge
knowledge sharing
sharing areas
areas of
of the
the pi
in figure
figure we
we see
see how
how productivity
productivity infrastructure
infrastructure can
can help
help prodcos
prodcos procurement
procurement staff
collaborate with
with one
one another
another as
as well
well as
as other
other groups
groups share
share knowledge
knowledge and
and communicate
efficiently in
in the
the fulfillment
fulfillment of
of the
the rfq
rfq process
in the
the early
early steps
steps of
of the
the process
process from
from order
received through
through create
create list
list of
of needed
needed materials
materials the
the procurement
procurement staff
staff are
are notified
notified of
changes in
in order
order status
status and
and impending
impending rfq
rfq workflow
the specific
specific mechanism
mechanism of
of notification
could vary
vary though
though it
it would
would probably
probably be
be an
an email
email alert
alert or
or a
a change
change in
in an
an order
order status
status screen
screen on
on the
as the
the procurement
procurement staff
staff need
need to
to solicit
solicit and
and review
review bids
bids they
they can
can use
use the
the team
team sites
sites and
search features
features of
of the
the pi
pi to
to find
find expertise
expertise that
that may
may rest
rest with
with individuals
individuals throughout
throughout the
the company
in our
our example
example if
if the
the procurement
procurement staffer
staffer searched
searched for
for the
the name
name of
of the
the product
product that
that gets
gets shipped
from mexico
mexico he
he or
or she
she might
might be
be directed
directed to
to a
a wiki
wiki or
or blog
blog that
that communicates
communicates the
the salient
salient details
of shipment
shipment in
in hot
hot weather
weather that
that would
would enable
enable even
even an
an inexperienced
inexperienced procurement
procurement staffer
staffer to
to avoid
the problem
problem that
that has
has plagued
plagued others
once that
that kind
kind of
of knowledge
knowledge is
is extant
extant and
and searchable
searchable it
it is
harder for
for the
the organization
organization to
to lose
the web
type of
of features
features that
that allow
allow individual
individual users
users to
create their
their own
own material
material easily
easily but
but also
also securely
securely is
is an
an underpinning
underpinning of
of successful
successful pi
stakeholders in
in the
the process
process can
can work
work on
on documents
documents such
such as
as contracts
contracts and
and rfqs
rfqs in
in a
a virtual
collaboration environment
environment and
and document
document management
management system
throughout the
the process
process is
communication pervasive
pervasive and
and real
real time
time through
through email
email phone
phone mobile
mobile devices
devices im
im and
and web
taylor eventdriven
eventdriven productivity
productivity infrastructure
the net
net effect
effect of
of this
this sophisticated
sophisticated pi
pi is
is a
a faster
faster procurement
procurement cycle
cycle with
with greater
sharing of
of knowledge
knowledge in
in real
real time
time and
and preservation
preservation of
of knowledge
pi has
has the
the potential
potential to
to help
prodco realize
realize its
its business
business objective
objective of
of rapid
rapid accurate
accurate procurement
you might
might imagine
imagine based
based on
on robust
robust productivity
productivity functionality
functionality shown
shown in
in figure
figure that
that even
without integration
integration of
of the
the underlying
underlying enterprise
enterprise eda
eda applications
applications you
you would
would be
be ahead
ahead of
of the
having solid
solid connectivity
connectivity between
between stakeholders
stakeholders in
in real
real time
time and
and streamlined
streamlined access
access to
documents and
and knowledge
knowledge is
is a
a big
big boost
boost to
to productivity
productivity even
even without
without tight
tight integration
integration with
with erp
and crm
however as
as you
you start
start to
to tie
tie the
the two
two sets
sets of
of systems
systems together
together the
the benefits
benefits become
striking assuming
assuming of
of course
course that
that the
the organization
organization and
and users
users are
are up
up to
to the
the challenge
challenge of
of making
making it
all work
edapi integration
integration requirements
what will
will it
it take
take to
to integrate
integrate prodcos
prodcos pi
pi and
and eda
eda to
to keep
keep it
it simple
simple and
and focused
focused so
so we
can learn
learn we
we will
will look
look at
at the
the functional
functional requirements
requirements for
for edapi
edapi integration
integration as
as they
they relate
relate to
to the
procurement example
example only
the following
following are
are the
the requirements
requirements that
that would
would drive
drive improved
productivity in
in the
the procurement
procurement process
process through
through connection
connection between
between the
the underlying
underlying edaenabled
edaenabled erp
erp and
and crm
crm applications
applications and
and the
the productivity
productivity infrastructure
we will
will also
also assign
assign this
hypothetical project
project a
a name
we are
are considering
considering integrating
integrating prodcos
prodcos pi
pi with
with its
its eda
eda so
so the
name pieda
pieda fits
fits well
it sounds
sounds a
a bit
bit like
like a
a geek
geek fraternity
fraternity which
which in
in a
a sense
sense it
it is
pieda erp
search results
team site
site with
with rss
rss feed
document archive
wireframe mockup
mockup of
of a
a composite
composite ui
ui for
for pieda
pieda showing
showing a
a single
single interface
interface that
that contains
contains erp
features search
search email
email team
team site
site with
with rss
rss feed
feed and
and a
a document
document archive
one of
of the
the first
first requirements
requirements that
that the
the pieda
pieda team
team will
will have
have to
to figure
figure out
out is
is the
the interface
there are
are two
two basic
basic choices
choices integrate
integrate the
the productivity
productivity tools
tools into
into the
the edaenabled
edaenabled erp
erp and
crm applications
applications or
or surface
surface the
the erp
erp and
and crm
crm applications
applications through
through the
the productivity
infrastructure tools
both options
options require
require the
the use
use of
of apis
apis and
and custom
custom tooling
tooling for
for implementation
though neither
neither requires
requires creating
creating interfaces
interfaces wholly
wholly from
from scratch
the major
major productivity
productivity suites
suites are
available with
with apis
apis and
and development
development kits
kits that
that enable
enable integration
integration of
of interfaces
interfaces and
and routing
routing and
transformation of
of messaging
messaging to
to and
and from
from enterprise
enterprise systems
taylor eventdriven
eventdriven productivity
productivity infrastructure
the first
first option
option which
which is
is shown
shown in
in figure
figure puts
puts the
the edaenabled
edaenabled erp
erp app
app into
into the
the same
ui as
as email
email document
document archive
archive search
search and
and a
a team
team site
site with
with rss
rss feeds
in this
this kind
kind of
of unified
dashboard the
the procurement
procurement staffer
staffer can
can work
work on
on specific
specific rfqs
rfqs and
and have
have a
a view
view of
of his
his or
or her
email relevant
relevant documents
documents and
and team
team updates
updates without
without leaving
leaving the
the erp
erp app
in the
the second
second option
the erp
erp app
app might
might appear
appear as
as a
a side
side bar
bar in
in the
the email
email client
client for
for example
the best
best practice
practice for
for this
entire issue
issue might
might be
be to
to do
do some
some research
research first
first consulting
consulting the
the end
end users
users and
and showing
showing them
them the
mockups to
to get
get input
input on
on how
how they
they prefer
prefer to
to work
work before
before committing
committing to
to one
one approach
approach or
or another
as shown
shown in
in figure
figure one
one of
of the
the most
most basic
basic features
features of
of pieda
pieda is
is the
the ability
ability to
to automate
notification of
of procurement
procurement process
process status
status changes
changes to
to stakeholders
when an
an order
order is
is received
from the
the crm
crm system
system the
the end
end user
user is
is notified
notified perhaps
perhaps through
through an
an email
email alert
same thing
thing when
the create
create bom
bom process
process is
is executed
executed in
in the
the erp
erp system
system the
the procurement
procurement person
person is
is notified
and so
so forth
forth through
through check
check inventory
inventory and
and create
create list
list of
of needed
needed materials
this real
real time
time or
rapid notification
notification of
of end
end users
users of
of changes
changes in
in state
state in
in the
the eda
eda serves
serves to
to prompt
prompt action
action on
on the
the part
of the
the end
end user
for example
example if
if the
the procurement
procurement staffer
staffer is
is alerted
alerted that
that an
an order
order is
is going
going into
into the
check inventory
inventory state
state then
then he
he or
or she
she can
can consult
consult the
the team
team site
site for
for background
background information
information on
this type
type of
of order
order and
and be
be ready
ready to
to handle
handle the
the vendor
vendor selection
selection right
right away
in this
this way
way pieda
connects the
the enterprise
enterprise nervous
nervous system
system of
of eda
eda right
right to
to the
the human
human thought
thought processes
processes necessary
for completion
completion of
of the
the process
process flow
following the
the process
process flow
flow shown
shown in
in figure
figure the
the next
next requirement
requirement for
for pieda
pieda we
we need
need to
address is
is the
the request
request for
for action
action that
that occurs
occurs when
when the
the process
process reaches
reaches the
the request
request procurement
when the
the bill
bill of
of materials
materials has
has been
been generated
generated and
and the
the inventory
inventory checked
checked and
and the
the list
list of
needed materials
materials drawn
drawn the
the procurement
procurement is
is now
now ready
ready to
to begin
pieda will
will alert
alert the
procurement staffer
staffer that
that he
he or
or she
she needs
needs to
to create
create an
an rfq
rfq and
and solicit
solicit bids
at first
first this
this would
probably be
be an
an email
email that
that requests
requests that
that action
action be
be taken
to make
make the
the process
process efficient
efficient though
though the
email should
should contain
contain an
an embedded
embedded link
link that
that will
will take
take the
the end
end user
user to
to exactly
exactly the
the right
right screen
screen in
the erp
erp app
app where
where the
the rfq
rfq can
can commence
if the
the end
end user
user simply
simply receives
receives an
an email
email notifying
him that
that he
he needs
needs to
to go
go to
to the
the erp
erp system
system and
and start
start an
an rfq
rfq and
and making
making him
him look
look it
it up
up perhaps
by copying
copying and
and pasting
pasting a
a job
job number
number into
into a
a search
search field
field we
we have
have not
not accomplished
accomplished very
very much
much in
terms of
of efficiency
this innate
innate linking
linking from
from email
email blog
blog entries
entries im
im texts
texts and
and documents
documents through
through to
to the
the actual
job page
page on
on the
the erp
erp system
system is
is an
an essential
essential requirement
requirement to
to make
make pieda
pieda worth
worth the
the effort
effort and
users should
should be
be able
able to
to toggle
toggle effortlessly
effortlessly between
between pi
pi and
and eda
eda without
without having
having to
to look
up the
the job
job detail
detail in
in the
the middle
middle of
of the
the process
as the
the rfq
rfq and
and bids
bids go
go through
through the
the review
review loops
loops pieda
pieda needs
needs to
to keep
keep decision
decision makers
close to
to each
each other
other and
and to
to the
the related
related documents
the erp
erp app
app needs
needs to
to show
show the
the presence
presence of
stakeholders so
so that
that all
all the
the people
people involved
involved in
in the
the process
process can
can connect
connect with
with one
one another
another either
through im
im email
email phone
phone or
or by
by looking
looking up
up information
information that
that was
was authored
authored by
by a
a particular
particular person
or team
in other
other words
words if
if a
a procurement
procurement staffer
staffer receives
receives an
an alert
alert that
that he
he must
must review
review a
a draft
draft of
an rfq
rfq the
the draft
draft of
of the
the document
document should
should appear
appear in
in the
the same
same interface
interface as
as the
the alert
then the
draft should
should show
show the
the presence
presence of
of its
its authors
authors with
with their
their availability
availability for
for im
im email
email or
or phone
instantly visible
alternatively a
a user
user should
should be
be able
able to
to link
link on
on the
the mysite
mysite teamsite
teamsite or
or blog
blog of
any document
document author
author or
or group
group of
of authors
authors in
in order
order to
to learn
learn more
more about
about what
what they
they know
know about
about the
procurement process
it should
should be
be possible
possible in
in pieda
pieda to
to conduct
conduct a
a search
search through
through the
the documents
documents blogs
blogs wikis
teamsites mysites
mysites and
and erp
erp business
business data
data to
to find
find relevant
relevant information
information about
about the
the procurement
procurement or
the project
project itself
through an
an enterprise
enterprise search
search interface
interface and
and backend
backend enterprise
enterprise search
search engine
the end
end user
user needs
needs to
to be
be able
able to
to look
look up
up any
any missing
missing information
information about
about the
the procurement
in our
example if
if the
the procurement
procurement staffer
staffer searches
searches for
for the
the component
component that
that needs
needs to
to be
be shipped
shipped in
in a
refrigerated truck
truck he
he or
or she
she should
should see
see the
the pertinent
pertinent notes
notes about
about shipment
shipment in
in the
the search
search results
taylor eventdriven
eventdriven productivity
productivity infrastructure
or at
at the
the very
very least
least get
get a
a search
search result
result that
that points
points to
to documents
documents that
that contain
contain the
the needed
a more
more sophisticated
sophisticated version
version of
of the
the enterprise
enterprise search
search scenario
scenario described
described above
above involves
including people
people in
in the
the search
search results
if the
the end
end user
user conducts
conducts a
a search
search for
for the
the billofmaterials
components the
the search
search results
results could
could contain
contain both
both a
a list
list of
of documents
documents related
related to
to the
the components
as well
well as
as the
the authors
authors including
including their
their presence
presence and
and knowledge
knowledge contributions
contributions to
to the
the organization
that way
way if
if a
a procurement
procurement staffer
staffer cannot
cannot find
find exactly
exactly what
what he
he is
is looking
looking for
for he
he can
can click
click on
on the
results of
of a
a people
people search
search and
and connect
connect to
to expertise
expertise either
either live
live or
or through
through a
a published
published knowledge
contribution such
such as
as a
a blog
blog or
or wiki
business intelligence
intelligence should
should be
be a
a requirement
requirement for
for pieda
though not
not perhaps
perhaps a
a dropdead
necessity bi
bi gives
gives stakeholders
stakeholders the
the ability
ability to
to analyze
analyze data
data and
and create
create reports
reports that
that lead
lead to
organizational knowledge
for example
example it
it may
may not
not be
be known
known that
that certain
certain component
component gets
destroyed by
by heat
heat in
in transit
if a
a procurement
procurement staffer
staffer ran
ran a
a report
report on
on job
job orders
orders that
that exceeded
planned costs
costs he
he or
or she
she might
might notice
notice that
that certain
certain types
types orders
orders that
that contained
contained a
a specific
specific component
which melted
melted in
in transit
transit all
all resulted
resulted in
in poor
poor financial
financial results
results for
for their
their respective
respective orders
course such
such bi
bi functionality
functionality already
already exists
exists in
in many
many erp
erp systems
the challenge
challenge for
for pieda
pieda is
is to
make it
it available
available to
to users
users easily
easily through
through the
the portal
portal front
front end
end of
of the
the productivity
productivity infrastructure
this availability
availability helps
helps expose
expose the
the knowledge
knowledge potential
potential of
of the
the business
business intelligence
and going
further with
with rss
rss feeds
feeds and
and subscriptions
subscriptions it
it becomes
becomes possible
possible to
to alert
alert people
people of
of new
new knowledge
without the
the receivers
receivers of
of the
the knowledge
knowledge needing
needing to
to know
know in
in advance
advance to
to look
look for
for it
finally with
an edapi
edapi connection
connection the
the rss
rss feed
feed itself
itself becomes
becomes an
an event
event with
with the
the potential
potential to
to trigger
trigger action
the collaborative
collaborative workflow
workflow for
for document
document creation
creation needs
needs to
to be
be manifest
manifest through
through pieda
end users
users crate
crate documents
documents and
and revise
revise them
them they
they must
must be
be able
able to
to see
see who
who has
has contributed
contributed to
to the
drafts and
and be
be aware
aware of
of their
their presence
presence if
if they
they need
need to
to contact
contact them
the document
document management
functions of
of pieda
pieda need
need to
to be
be able
able to
to route
route documents
documents along
along approval
approval paths
paths allowing
allowing for
for final
approvers to
to be
be aware
aware that
that drafts
drafts have
have been
been created
created for
for their
their review
the ability
ability to
to set
set up
up an
instant online
online web
web meeting
meeting or
or conference
conference call
call to
to review
review a
a document
document in
in real
real time
time should
should be
be built
into pieda
bottom line
line pieda
pieda needs
needs to
to provide
provide users
users with
with real
real time
time or
or near
near real
real time
time access
access and
awareness about
about events
events that
that occur
occur in
in the
the erp
erp and
and crm
crm systems
pieda needs
needs to
to give
give users
access to
to the
the people
people who
who create
create documents
documents and
and data
data inputs
inputs to
to the
the system
the goal
goal is
streamlined rapid
rapid decision
decision making
making that
that results
results in
in the
the best
best possible
possible decisions
pieda needs
needs to
stimulate the
the creation
creation and
and distribution
distribution of
of knowledge
knowledge in
in an
an effortless
effortless manner
users need
need to
to find
or receive
receive knowledge
knowledge passively
piedas target
target architecture
having outlined
outlined pieda
pieda functional
functional requirements
requirements the
the challenge
challenge now
now is
is to
to relate
relate them
them to
to a
target architecture
architecture for
for the
the development
development of
of a
a working
working eda
after all
all the
the goal
goal of
of pieda
pieda is
is to
reduce the
the amount
amount of
of random
random and
and unstructured
unstructured communication
communication between
between people
people as
as they
they manage
the information
information in
in the
the crm
crm and
and erp
erp systems
doing this
this means
means connecting
connecting events
events in
in those
systems to
to automated
automated and
and semiautomation
semiautomation actions
actions in
in the
the productivity
productivity infrastructure
the first
step in
in this
this process
process is
is to
to understand
understand how
how the
the functional
functional requirements
requirements map
map to
to events
events in
in the
the overall
taylor eventdriven
eventdriven productivity
productivity infrastructure
emailimproductivity tools
internal pi
pi event
event processing
pi communications
communications framework
pieda event
event processors
pieda event
event listeners
event producer
event processor
event producer
event processor
event producer
event processor
event producer
event processor
team sites
sites enterprise
social computing
internal erpcrm
erpcrm event
event listeners
event processors
target architecture
architecture for
for pieda
pieda showing
showing three
three separate
separate areas
areas of
of event
event processing
processing the
the crm
crm and
erp systems
systems cycle
cycle event
event data
data between
between themselves
themselves area
area c
c as
as does
does the
the productivity
infrastructure area
area a
pieda area
area b
b listens
listens for
for event
event data
data from
from both
both and
and produces
produces its
its own
all three
three event
event processing
processing areas
areas listen
listen for
for each
each others
others events
figure shows
shows a
a target
target architecture
architecture for
for pieda
notable is
is the
the contrast
contrast to
to earlier
earlier eda
examples we
we have
have explored
explored which
which have
have one
one area
area of
of event
event processing
pieda has
has three
are events
events produced
produced listened
listened for
for and
and processed
processed at
at the
the level
level of
of the
the crm
crm and
and erp
erp systems
systems shown
as area
area c
c in
in the
the figure
in addition
addition the
the productivity
productivity infrastructure
infrastructure itself
itself has
has a
a whole
whole event
processing setup
setup shown
shown as
as area
area a
a in
in the
the figure
this is
is an
an interesting
interesting discovery
discovery for
for anyone
getting under
under the
the hood
hood of
of a
a productivity
productivity suite
suite it
it has
has many
many eventdriven
eventdriven features
features right
right out
out of
of the
whether youre
youre dealing
dealing with
with microsoft
microsoft sharepoint
sharepoint and
and office
office ibm
ibm lotus
lotus or
or others
others you
will find
find a
a handsome
handsome compliment
compliment of
of event
event processing
processing going
going on
on inside
inside the
the application
application suite
example sharepoint
sharepoint has
has numerous
numerous automated
automated notifications
notifications of
of document
document draft
draft changes
changes and
and blog
posts and
and so
so forth
the third
third area
area of
of event
event processing
processing area
area b
b is
is piedas
piedas actual
actual integration
integration between
between areas
areas a
and c
as depicted
depicted in
in figure
figure piedas
piedas event
event processing
processing area
area is
is contained
contained within
within the
the portal
however it
it need
need not
not be
we are
are approach
approach pieda
pieda as
as if
if it
it were
were going
going to
to be
be developing
using custom
custom development
development apis
apis built
built onto
onto the
the portal
portal server
when undertaking
undertaking a
a project
project such
such as
pieda many
many different
different alternatives
alternatives may
may in
in fact
fact be
be more
more attractive
for example
example it
it might
might make
the most
most sense
sense to
to build
build pieda
pieda on
on top
top of
of the
the erpcrm
erpcrm service
service bus
bus or
or develop
develop it
it on
on its
its own
standalone application
application server
the bottom
bottom line
line though
though is
is it
it will
will have
have to
to be
be built
at this
this time
there is
is no
no out
out of
of the
the box
box solution
solution for
for the
the kind
kind of
of functionality
functionality envisioned
envisioned for
for pieda
figure is
is a
a rather
rather complicated
complicated picture
picture unfortunately
however though
though piedas
piedas abc
setup is
is complex
complex the
the beauty
beauty of
of it
it is
is that
that areas
areas a
a and
and c
c can
can operate
operate quite
quite well
well on
on their
their own
own even
taylor eventdriven
eventdriven productivity
productivity infrastructure
if you
you take
take out
out b
b the
the pieda
pieda event
event processing
processing center
pieda is
is an
an incremental
incremental upgrade
upgrade to
to the
architecture and
and the
the event
event processing
processing capabilities
capabilities of
of the
the pi
pi and
and the
the backend
backend are
are not
not reliant
reliant on
on it
i mention
mention this
this because
because some
some might
might look
look at
at figure
figure and
and decide
decide that
that the
the effort
effort is
is not
not worth
worth the
on the
the contrary
contrary the
the productivity
productivity gains
gains should
should justify
justify the
the work
work of
of making
making it
it happen
plus if
if its
its done
done right
right the
the complexity
complexity of
of pieda
pieda need
need not
not result
result in
in an
an excess
excess of
of administrative
load or
or inhibitions
inhibitions of
of process
process agility
to illustrate
illustrate how
how the
the target
target architecture
architecture for
for pieda
pieda fulfills
fulfills on
on the
the functional
functional requirements
requirements ill
walk through
through one
one specific
specific example
example the
the event
event flow
using the
the requirement
requirement of
of request
procurement lets
lets examine
examine the
the specific
specific eda
eda functions
functions that
that pieda
pieda needs
needs to
to realize
realize in
in order
order to
make the
the requirement
requirement work
the requirement
requirement specifies
specifies that
that the
the erp
erp system
system inform
inform that
procurement staffer
staffer that
that procurement
procurement is
is needed
needed for
for a
a list
list of
of items
the following
following flow
flow of
of process
steps describes
describes how
how this
this requirement
requirement could
could be
be fulfilled
fulfilled adding
adding in
in the
the events
events that
that are
are produced
produced and
listened to
to at
at each
each step
staffer that
procurement is
area a
area b
email server
area a
send email
email that
carries event
event state
email should
should contain
dynamic links
links to
documents and
presence information
for stakeholders
if collaboration
is needed
needed create
im session
session to
discuss rfq
pieda portal
server area
if documents
documents are
needed to
to support
procurement practively
practively link
staffer with
pieda portal
server area
b working
through word
generate vendor
pieda portal
server area
order number
skus needed
pieda area
im server
area a
create im
im session
that is
is populated
with event
event state
requires xml
carried on
on sip
pieda portal
server area
pieda portal
server area
publish document
update in
document library
on pieda
document needs
needs to
contain author
presence data
data and
links to
to author
author mysite
and teamsite
pieda portal
server area
server area
create email
populated with
rfq data
rfq data
data should
should be
in state
state carried
through event
connecting event
event producers
producers listeners
listeners processors
processors and
and reactions
reactions to
to process
process steps
steps in
in request
once again
again our
our old
old eda
eda friend
friend carrying
carrying state
state surfaces
surfaces in
in pieda
in order
order for
for an
an email
or im
im session
session to
to be
be generated
generated as
as a
a reaction
reaction to
to an
an event
event the
the event
event processor
processor must
must have
have access
access to
the event
event state
state data
data in
in the
the event
event message
for example
example if
if the
the user
user initiates
initiates the
the createim
command which
which starts
starts an
an instant
instant message
message session
session with
with another
another stakeholder
stakeholder the
the requirement
requirement is
that the
the im
im session
session will
will automatically
automatically contain
contain data
data about
about the
the specific
specific procurement
procurement under
discussion as
as well
well as
as links
links to
to the
the erp
erp system
system files
files as
as well
well as
as documents
documents that
that need
need to
to be
to do
do this
this the
the createim
createim command
command needs
needs to
to contain
contain a
a function
function that
that lets
lets it
it search
search for
already published
published event
event data
data about
about the
the procurement
procurement in
in question
in effect
effect createim
createim is
is a
a twostate
twostate command
command series
series that
that looks
looks like
like this
taylor eventdriven
eventdriven productivity
productivity infrastructure
when user
user initiates
initiates createim
createim command
command for
for procurement
procurement xyz
xyz search
search message
queue of
of events
events published
published for
for dorfq
dorfq and
and find
find procurement
procurement xyz
xyz data
initiate im
im session
session through
through sip
sip carrying
carrying xyz
xyz data
data as
as xml
xml bound
bound to
to sip
i use
use this
this im
im example
example for
for a
a reason
reason namely
namely that
that sip
sip to
to xml
xml integration
integration is
is not
not easy
easy and
and the
standards involved
involved continue
continue to
to evolve
binding soap
soap to
to sip
sip also
also challenging
challenging to
to the
the point
point where
some sources
sources say
say it
it is
is not
not possible
possible or
or reliable
however this
this is
is exactly
exactly the
the kind
kind of
of integration
that is
is needed
needed to
to make
make edapi
edapi integration
integration a
a success
and the
the integration
integration needs
needs to
to be
be flexible
allowing low
low friction
friction for
for rapid
rapid changes
changes in
in configuring
configuring im
im session
session generation
generation with
with changing
business process
process models
it will
will take
take more
more than
than average
average effort
effort to
to get
get it
it to
to work
work but
but pieda
should generate
generate greater
greater than
than average
average roi
the broader
broader point
point is
is that
that pieda
pieda area
area b
b needs
needs to
to be
be a
a flexible
flexible switchboard
switchboard connecting
connecting the
event activities
activities with
with areas
areas a
a and
and c
c in
in order
order to
to create
create roi
roi and
and justification
justification of
of the
the whole
whole project
if pieda
pieda is
is too
too rigid
rigid and
and changes
changes are
are time
time consuming
consuming or
or expensive
expensive then
then the
the eda
eda pi
pi integration
will not
not serve
serve its
its business
business purpose
while this
this statement
statement could
could be
be made
made about
about almost
almost any
application or
or architecture
architecture project
project it
it is
is particularly
particularly true
true for
for pi
pi is
is inherently
inherently more
unstructured more
more unpredictable
unpredictable than
than conventional
conventional it
it situations
given the
the complexity
complexity of
of pieda
pieda achieving
achieving the
the high
high degree
degree of
of flexibility
flexibility envisioned
envisioned above
above is
a double
double challenge
not only
only does
does your
your development
development team
team have
have to
to create
create an
an architecture
architecture that
that is
wholly new
new and
and do
do so
so with
with custom
custom development
development they
they must
must create
create an
an architecture
architecture that
that is
is highly
flexible too
some wise
wise people
people might
might declare
declare the
the challenge
challenge not
not worth
worth it
it at
at the
the outset
while these
these wise
wise people
people wouldnt
wouldnt be
be entirely
entirely wrong
wrong for
for wanting
wanting to
to avoid
avoid the
the hassle
hassle of
entering uncharted
uncharted waters
waters the
the good
good news
news is
is that
that pieda
pieda can
can actually
actually be
be deployed
deployed in
in very
very small
looking at
at figure
figure x
x you
you can
can understand
understand that
that area
area a
a already
already exists
exists in
in some
some form
virtually every
every sizable
sizable business
business in
in the
the world
world has
has an
an email
email system
system an
an intranet
intranet of
of some
some kind
kind and
suites of
of productivity
productivity applications
voip and
and corporate
corporate im
im are
are on
on the
the ascent
ascent as
as well
area a
a from
from scratch
scratch is
is not
not an
an issue
area c
c exists
exists in
in its
its component
component parts
parts and
and exposing
exposing web
services and
and creating
creating an
an eda
eda is
is a
a decision
decision that
that is
is separate
separate from
from building
building pieda
there would
would be
a good
good rationale
rationale for
for creating
creating an
an eda
eda at
at the
the crm
crm and
and erp
erp system
system level
level for
for its
its own
own sake
the key
key takeaway
takeaway for
for thinking
thinking about
about implementing
implementing pieda
pieda is
is to
to understand
understand that
that area
area b
b can
be developed
developed in
in stages
in fact
fact it
it can
can be
be deployed
deployed one
one feature
feature at
at a
a time
time after
after a
a core
core set
set of
of eda
infrastructure pieces
pieces have
have been
been put
put in
in place
unlike area
area c
c which
which needs
needs a
a certain
certain number
number of
event producers
producers listeners
listeners and
and processors
processors to
to hit
hit critical
critical mass
mass and
and function
function pieda
pieda can
can start
start quite
pieda can
can take
take one
one instance
instance of
of event
event processing
processing such
such as
as request
request procurement
procurement and
and put
it into
into full
full effect
this approach
approach might
might even
even be
be the
the optimal
optimal way
way of
of getting
getting it
it off
off the
the ground
given the
the fickle
fickle nature
nature of
of humanmachine
humanmachine interaction
interaction which
which is
is truly
truly at
at the
the heart
heart of
of pieda
pieda it
might be
be smart
smart to
to design
design test
test and
and deploy
deploy in
in tiny
tiny increments
while the
the dev
dev team
team might
might think
think its
really cool
cool to
to have
have an
an automated
automated im
im session
session generated
generated users
users might
might scoff
scoff at
at such
such a
a feature
save time
time and
and resources
resources and
and assure
assure the
the highest
highest level
level of
of success
success piedas
piedas implementation
implementation plan
should include
include a
a thorough
thorough usability
usability testing
testing and
and feedback
feedback cycle
end users
users need
need to
to be
be included
intensely throughout
throughout piedas
piedas lifecycle
this is
is especially
especially relevant
relevant because
because pieda
pieda does
does not
not rely
on prepackaged
prepackaged software
software which
which usually
usually undergoes
undergoes its
its own
own round
round of
of usability
usability tests
tests and
and market
in the
the future
future though
though pieda
pieda type
type platforms
platforms might
might become
become common
today though
its an
an unexplored
unexplored frontier
free tip
tip for
for readers
readers if
if anyone
anyone is
is brave
brave enough
enough to
to stake
stake a
a claim
claim in
in this
space venture
venture capitalists
capitalists might
might find
find it
it interesting
taylor eventdriven
eventdriven productivity
productivity infrastructure
again in
in the
the spirit
spirit of
of not
not repeating
repeating what
what has
has already
already been
been discussed
discussed in
in great
great depth
previously lets
lets touch
touch briefly
briefly on
on governance
governance is
is where
where the
the complexity
complexity of
of pieda
pieda can
be a
a challenge
with pieda
pieda you
you are
are talking
talking about
about integrating
integrating eda
eda components
components on
on multiple
platforms with
with all
all the
the federation
federation and
and mediation
mediation that
that involves
and you
you will
will confront
confront the
the fact
that productivity
productivity infrastructure
infrastructure typically
typically comes
comes with
with its
its own
own builtin
builtin identity
identity management
apparatus that
that you
you cant
cant really
really switch
switch off
it may
may be
be possible
possible to
to adapt
adapt the
the pis
pis identity
management system
system for
for use
use in
in the
the broader
broader eda
or you
you may
may be
be able
able to
to federate
federate the
the identity
management and
and governance
governance solutions
lifecycle and
and provisioning
provisioning will
will also
also be
be built
built in
in to
to the
the pi
and it
it is
is almost
almost certain
certain that
that you
you will
will need
need to
to keep
keep those
those functions
functions in
in place
place despite
despite the
the fact
fact that
you will
will not
not be
be able
able to
to use
use those
those functions
functions for
for life
life cycle
cycle and
and provisioning
provisioning of
of the
the eda
all of
of these
these challenges
challenges can
can be
be solved
solved however
however with
with time
time and
and effort
in planning
for pieda
pieda assume
assume that
that governance
governance will
will be
be a
a major
major investment
we are
are at
at the
the very
very start
start of
of the
the movement
movement towards
towards sophisticated
sophisticated integration
integration of
of eda
eda and
and pi
early examples
examples of
of this
this technological
technological paradigm
paradigm include
include the
the microsoftsap
microsoftsap duet
duet product
product which
integrates outlook
outlook email
email with
with sap
sap applications
applications or
or the
the lotus
lotus sametime
sametime integration
integration with
webspherebased business
business applications
an interesting
interesting trend
trend in
in the
the evolution
evolution of
of edapi
edapi is
is the
use of
of the
the cloud
cloud in
in linking
linking events
events and
and productivity
productivity tools
early examples
examples of
of this
this include
coms ability
ability to
to create
create discussion
discussion threads
threads and
and mobile
mobile alerts
alerts based
based on
on postings
postings to
to a
users page
page by
by other
other network
network members
members or
or salesforce
coms connectivity
connectivity with
with the
the outlook
outlook email
client taking
taking advantage
advantage of
of web
web services
it is
is likely
likely that
that more
more sophisticated
sophisticated edapi
edapi integrations
integrations will
will continue
continue to
to develop
develop as
as the
workforce becomes
becomes more
more accustomed
accustomed to
to pervasive
pervasive mobile
mobile computing
computing as
as a
a mode
mode of
of work
need for
for disparate
disparate groups
groups of
of people
people to
to communicate
communicate smoothly
smoothly on
on fastmoving
fastmoving business
business issues
regardless of
of location
location or
or computing
computing platform
platform should
should drive
drive ever
ever increasing
increasing capabilities
capabilities in
in edapi
this is
is all
all the
the more
more relevant
relevant as
as a
a younger
younger generation
generation who
who have
have known
known nothing
nothing other
than mobile
mobile computing
computing arrives
arrives in
in the
the workplace
workplace and
and expects
expects to
to conduct
conduct business
business in
in real
real time
across a
a myriad
myriad of
of temporal
temporal and
and spatial
spatial factors
taylor eventdriven
eventdriven productivity
productivity infrastructure
