indigenous peoples
peoples rights
rights to
to culture
culture and
and individual
individual rights
rights to
to access
kay mathiesen
school of
of information
information resources
resources and
and library
library science
university of
of arizona
tucson az
using the
the methods
methods of
of philosophical
philosophical analysis
analysis and
and concepts
concepts from
from moral
moral and
political philosophy
philosophy indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples human
human right
right to
to control
control access
to their
their cultural
cultural information
information is
is defended
the concept
concept of
of a
a right
is delineated
delineated and
and different
different types
types of
of rights
rights are
are differentiated
method of
of an
an overlapping
overlapping consensus
consensus is
is used
in attempting
attempting to
articulate the
the moral
moral foundation
foundation for
for indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples rights
rights to
culture we
we can
can start
start with
with justifications
justifications for
for limiting
limiting access
access that
that are
already widely
widely accepted
accepted within
within our
our society
these widely
widely accepted
justifications for
for controlling
controlling or
or limiting
limiting access
access to
to information
information include
the claim
claim that
that said
said information
information is
is a
a under
under copyright
copyright b
b a
a trade
trade or
state secret
secret c
c harmful
harmful to
to some
some segment
segment of
of society
society or
or is
is d
d private
or confidential
the moral
moral grounds
grounds for
for each
each of
of these
these limitations
limitations on
free access
access is
is explored
ac are
are found
found to
to not
not provide
provide an
an adequate
ground for
for indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples rights
rights to
to control
control access
access to
to their
the cultural
cultural rights
rights of
of indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples are
are defended
defended as
as a
form of
of group
group privacy
two possible
possible moral
moral dangers
dangers of
of this
this defense
defense of
indigenous peoples
peoples rights
rights to
to culture
culture are
are considered
it is
is shown
shown that
on a
a properly
properly nuanced
nuanced understanding
understanding of
of the
the contours
contours of
of the
the indigenous
peoples rights
rights to
to group
group privacy
privacy they
they do
do not
not give
give rise
rise to
to either
either of
these dangers
cultural information
information systems
information policy
policy ethics
ethics and
and law
cultural property
intellectual property
access to
to information
nonindigenous americans
americans belong
belong to
to a
a national
national culture
culture that
that has
has benefited
from their
their past
past and
and ongoing
ongoing oppression
oppression and
and destruction
destruction of
of native
american peoples
peoples and
and cultures
as such
such we
we share
share along
along with
with other
colonial and
and majority
majority populations
populations a
a collective
collective responsibility
responsibility to
to these
thus nonnative
nonnative persons
persons organizations
organizations and
and governments
governments have
good reasons
reasons to
to support
support any
any efforts
efforts on
on the
the part
part of
of native
native peoples
peoples to
assert their
their rights
one of
of the
the persisting
persisting harms
harms done
done to
to indigenous
peoples is
is the
the attempted
attempted destruction
destruction of
of their
their cultures
this attempted
destruction has
has been
been twofold
first is
is the
the attempted
attempted forced
assimilation of
of indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples into
into the
the culture
culture of
of the
the colonizers
the second
second is
is the
the appropriation
appropriation of
of that
that culture
culture through
through unethical
anthropological practices
practices as
as well
well as
as the
the collection
collection and
and fetishization
of native
native cultures
cultures as
as representations
representations of
of the
the exotic
exotic authentic
spiritual or
or savage
in this
this context
context the
the movements
movements of
of indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples around
around the
the world
world to
reassert their
their connection
connection to
to their
their cultural
cultural heritage
heritage are
are a
a positive
this assertion
assertion has
has already
already affected
affected the
the practice
practice of
of archaeology
anthropology and
and other
other disciplines
disciplines that
that focus
focus on
on researching
researching indigenous
peoples and
and cultures
indigenous peoples
peoples continued
continued efforts
efforts to
to get
back control
control of
of their
their cultural
cultural heritage
heritage has
has and
and will
will continue
continue to
to have
important implications
implications for
for those
those concerned
concerned with
with collecting
collecting storing
organizing and
and providing
providing access
access to
to cultural
cultural information
information e
libraries archives
archives and
and museums
on september
september the
the united
united nations
nations general
general assembly
assembly adopted
adopted the
declaration on
on rights
rights of
of indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples undri
the undri
asserts group
group rights
rights of
of cultural
cultural possession
possession and
and control
control which
which should
should be
of central
central interest
interest to
to those
those in
in the
the field
field of
of information
according to
article of
of the
the undri
undri for
for example
example indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples have
have rights
rights to
maintain control
control protect
protect and
and develop
develop their
their intellectual
intellectual property
overcultural heritage
heritage traditional
traditional knowledge
knowledge and
and traditional
cultural expressions
and according
according to
to article
article indigenous
peoples have
have the
the right
right to
to redress
redress for
for or
or restitution
restitution of
of cultural
intellectual religious
religious and
and spiritual
spiritual property
property taken
taken without
without their
their free
prior and
and informed
informed consent
consent or
or in
in violation
violation of
of their
their laws
laws traditions
traditions and
these provisions
provisions express
express the
the ideals
ideals behind
behind a
a worldwide
movement by
by indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples to
to reclaim
reclaim their
their cultural
cultural heritage
the question
question for
for those
those interested
interested in
in the
the preservation
preservation and
and free
free flow
flow of
information is
is how
how to
to balance
balance the
the rights
rights of
of indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples to
culture with
with the
the rights
rights of
of individuals
individuals to
to access
access information
in order
to determine
determine where
where this
this balance
balance might
might be
be we
we need
need a
a deeper
deeper understanding
of the
the grounds
grounds of
of the
the rights
rights of
of indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples over
over their
their cultural
only if
if we
we understand
understand the
the justification
justification for
for and
and the
function of
of these
these rights
rights can
can we
we understand
understand fully
fully what
what they
they may
reasonably demand
demand of
of us
providing such
such a
a justification
justification is
is the
the goal
goal of
this paper
the protocols
protocols for
for native
native american
american archival
archival material
material and
and restrictions
on access
recently a
a number
number of
of native
native and
and nonnative
nonnative american
american librarians
librarians and
archivists collaboratively
collaboratively drafted
drafted the
the protocols
protocols for
for native
native american
archival material
material pnaam
pnaam describes
describes in
in detail
detail what
what these
professionals and
and community
community members
members consider
consider the
the best
best practices
practices in
in the
handling of
of native
native american
american archival
archival materials
materials housed
housed in
in archives
libraries museums
museums etc
materials covered
covered by
by pnaam
pnaam include
include recordings
and transcripts
transcripts of
of such
such works
works as
as songs
songs chants
chants personal
personal or
or family
information oral
oral histories
histories community
community histories
histories myths
myths and
folklore cartographic
cartographic materials
materials of
of such
such things
things as
as sacred
sacred sites
sites or
areas village
village sites
sites territories
territories use
use areas
areas and
and archaeological
archaeological data
ethnobotanical materials
materials or
or genealogical
genealogical data
nagpra and
and information
information objects
discussions of
of indigenous
indigenous cultural
cultural rights
rights particularly
particularly in
in the
the united
states cannot
cannot be
be understood
understood without
without some
some familiarity
familiarity with
with the
the native
american grave
grave protection
protection and
and repatriation
repatriation act
act nagpra
nagpra which
was passed
passed in
in requires
requires the
the cataloguing
cataloguing and
and repatriation
repatriation of
of native
american human
human remains
remains funerary
funerary objects
objects and
and objects
objects of
of cultural
according to
to the
the national
national nagpra
nagpra report
report so
so far
far there
have been
been notices
notices of
of intent
intent to
to repatriate
repatriate publishedwhich
publishedwhich account
for funerary
funerary objects
objects sacred
sacred objects
objects objects
objects of
cultural patrimony
patrimony and
and sacred
sacred objects
objects that
that are
are also
also cultural
n group
group or
or culture
culture itself
itself rather
rather than
than property
property owned
owned by
by anindividual
native american
american and
and which
which therefore
therefore cannot
cannot be
be alienated
appropriated or
or conveyed
conveyed by
by any
any individual
individual regardless
regardless of
of whether
whether or
or not
the individual
individual is
is a
a member
member of
of the
the indian
indian tribe
tribe or
or native
native hawaiian
organization and
and such
such object
object shall
shall have
have been
been considered
considered inalienable
inalienable by
such native
native american
american group
group at
at the
the time
time the
the object
object wasseparated
wasseparated from
such group
some have
have argued
argued that
that the
the cultural
cultural patrimony
patrimony section
section of
of the
the law
law covers
information objects
objects such
such as
as songs
songs descriptions
descriptions or
or pictures
pictures of
of rituals
however the
the language
language of
of it
it being
being an
an object
object implies
implies that
that it
does not
not cover
cover information
information which
which is
is not
not typically
typically described
described as
as an
we can
can make
make a
a distinction
distinction between
between an
an objectsuch
objectsuch as
as a
manuscript describing
describing a
a ritual
ritual recording
recording of
of a
a song
song picture
picture of
of a
basket and
and the
the information
information contained
contained in
in that
that object
thus even
even if
nagrpa covers
covers the
the returning
returning of
of the
the object
object our
our question
question is
is whether
whether it
includes the
the return
return of
of control
control over
over the
the information
information contained
contained in
the object
compare the
the rights
rights i
i may
may have
have in
in a
a painting
painting and
and the
the rights
rights i
have in
in any
any reproductions
reproductions of
of that
that painting
if someone
someone steals
steals the
painting from
from me
me i
i have
have rights
rights to
to have
have the
the painting
painting returned
returned but
but i
i do
not necessarily
necessarily have
have any
any rights
rights in
in reproductions
the right
right in
reproductions may
may be
be with
with someone
someone else
else e
the artist
artist or
or it
it may
may be
in the
the public
public domain
while nagpra
nagpra provides
provides us
us with
with a
a model
model of
of how
cataloguing and
and repatriation
repatriation works
works and
and thus
thus provides
provides a
a guide
guide for
for how
such cataloging
cataloging and
and repatriation
repatriation might
might go
go for
for cultural
cultural information
nagpra itself
itself does
does not
not presently
presently provide
provide a
a legal
legal requirement
requirement for
for the
cataloguing or
or repatriation
repatriation of
of cultural
cultural information
the provisions
provisions of
of pnaam
pnaam is
is particularly
particularly laudable
laudable insofar
insofar as
as it
it tries
tries to
to balance
balance the
the rights
and responsibilities
responsibilities of
of both
both tribes
tribes and
and nontribal
nontribal information
information stewards
by providing
providing a
a list
list of
of best
best practices
practices for
for both
both communities
it calls
calls for
the creation
creation of
of relationships
relationships between
between the
the tribes
tribes and
and archives
anyone dealing
dealing with
with native
native american
american archival
archival materials
materials must
must read
read and
seriously consider
consider pnaam
to give
give a
a sense
sense of
of the
the suggestions
suggestions in
in pnaam
pnaam it
it is
is worth
worth quoting
quoting some
some of
the recommendations
recommendations at
at length
with regard
regard to
to removal
removal or
or intentional
nonpreservation of
of information
information objects
objects pnaam
pnaam states
states that
that some
items such
such as
as a
a photograph
photograph of
of a
a sacred
sacred ceremony
ceremony or
or object
object or
culturally sensitive
sensitive documentation
documentation of
of a
a burial
burial should
should not
not be
be preserved
forever or
or may
may need
need to
to be
be restricted
restricted or
or repatriated
repatriated to
to the
the culturally
affiliated group
with regard
regard to
to restricted
restricted access
access pnaam
pnaam states
that archivists
archivists and
and others
others ought
ought to
to respect
respect a
a communitys
communitys request
to restrict
restrict access
access to
to and
and use
use of
of materials
materials that
that describe
describe and
and represent
esoteric ceremonial
ceremonial or
or religious
religious knowledge
knowledge that
that is
is significant
significant to
to the
clearly although
although such
such material
material may
may be
be in
in the
the form
form of
original documents
documents in
in an
an archive
archive it
it may
may also
also be
be included
included in
in published
works held
held by
by academic
academic and
and public
public libraries
thus the
the same
same reasoning
that would
would lead
lead to
to restricting
restricting access
access to
to archival
archival materials
materials which
represents such
such knowledge
knowledge would
would lead
lead to
to restricting
restricting access
access to
to published
works that
that represent
represent such
such knowledge
intellectual freedom
freedom and
and the
the information
information professions
a number
number of
of authors
authors in
in both
both philosophy
philosophy and
and lis
lis have
have argued
argued that
that access
to information
information is
is key
key to
to our
our capacity
capacity to
to enjoy
enjoy our
our democratic
democratic and
personal freedoms
alfino and
and pierce
pierce for
for example
example argue
argue that
information in
in the
the context
context of
of guided
guided inquirysupports
inquirysupports the
development of
of personal
personal autonomy
autonomy and
and personal
personal agency
professionals particularly
particularly in
in the
the u
context see
see their
their profession
profession as
devoted to
to intellectual
intellectual freedom
freedom and
and the
the public
public domain
the american
library association
association for
for instance
instance proclaims
proclaims that
that intellectual
intellectual freedom
is the
the right
right of
of every
every individual
individual to
to both
both seek
seek and
and receive
receive information
from all
all points
points of
of view
view without
without restriction
it provides
provides for
for free
free access
to all
all expressions
expressions of
of ideas
ideas through
through which
which any
any and
and all
all sides
sides of
of a
question cause
cause or
or movement
movement may
may be
be explored
intellectual freedom
encompasses the
the freedom
freedom to
to hold
hold receive
receive and
and disseminate
disseminate ideas
emphasis added
these values
values are
are also
also embedded
embedded in
in the
the united
states constitution
the u
supreme court
court has
has held
held that
that access
access to
information is
is a
a constitutional
constitutional right
the right
right of
of freedom
freedom of
speech and
and press
press includes
includes not
not only
only the
the right
right to
to utter
utter or
or to
to print
print but
the right
right to
to distribute
distribute the
the right
right to
to receive
receive the
the right
right to
to read
read martin
struthers u
and freedom
freedom of
of inquiry
inquiry freedom
freedom of
thought and
and freedom
freedom to
to teach
teach see
see wieman
wieman v
updegraff u
this commitment
commitment makes
makes any
any contentbased
contentbased restriction
restriction on
on access
access to
information is
is suspect
a possible
possible case
case might
might make
make the
the possible
concerns clearer
suppose for
for example
example that
that a
a student
student researching
folklore wishes
wishes to
to access
access a
a recording
recording of
of a
a traditional
traditional song
song held
held by
by a
library or
or archive
perhaps he
he or
or she
she wishes
wishes to
to determine
determine whether
whether or
how this
this story
story might
might be
be related
related to
to stories
stories in
in other
other cultures
that after
after the
the library
library or
or archive
archive consults
consults with
with the
the tribe
tribe from
from which
the story
story originated
originated the
the tribe
tribe wishes
wishes to
to deny
deny access
access to
to anyone
anyone engaged
in this
this sort
sort of
of research
ought the
the library
library to
to restrict
restrict access
access what
would the
the library
library bill
bill of
of rights
rights lbr
lbr for
for example
example advise
advise a
a librarian
or other
other information
information professional
professional to
to do
according to
to article
article three
three of
of the
the lbr
lbr libraries
libraries should
should challenge
censorship in
in the
the fulfillment
fulfillment of
of their
their responsibility
responsibility to
to provide
information and
and enlightenment
enlightenment it
it may
may appear
appear that
that restricting
access to
to information
information because
because a
a particular
particular group
group does
does not
not want
want outsiders
to know
know the
the information
information amounts
amounts to
to censorship
even if
if such
such limitations
are not
not censorship
censorship per
per se
se they
they may
may still
still illegitimately
illegitimately infringe
our rights
rights to
to access
access information
indeed the
the lbr
lbr recognizes
recognizes that
that there
are a
a wide
wide range
range of
of ways
ways in
in which
which our
our rights
rights of
of expression
expression and
and access
may be
be abridged
abridged and
and calls
calls for
for resisting
resisting them
according to
to article
article four
of the
the lbr
lbr libraries
libraries should
should cooperate
cooperate with
with all
all persons
persons and
and groups
concerned with
with resisting
resisting abridgment
abridgment of
of free
free expression
expression and
and free
free access
to ideas
and article
article five
five of
of lbr
lbr seems
seems to
to pose
pose some
some serious
problems for
for some
some of
of the
the best
best practices
practices listed
listed in
in pnaam
if groups
groups wish
wish to
to limit
limit access
access to
to works
works based
based on
on the
the ethnic
ethnic origin
whether or
or not
not one
one is
is a
a tribal
tribal member
member age
age or
or gender
gender of
of the
patron this
this may
may conflict
conflict with
with the
the requirement
requirement of
of the
the lbr
lbr that
that a
persons right
right to
to use
use a
a library
library should
should not
not be
be denied
denied or
or abridged
because of
of origin
origin age
age background
background or
or views
in order
order to
to answer
answer our
our question
question of
of how
how to
to balance
balance the
the rights
rights of
indigenous peoples
peoples to
to their
their culture
culture with
with the
the rights
rights of
of individuals
individuals to
access information
information we
we need
need to
to have
have a
a deeper
deeper understanding
understanding of
of the
the grounds
for these
these rights
only if
if we
we understand
understand the
the justification
justification for
for and
function of
of these
these rights
rights can
can we
we understand
understand fully
fully what
what they
they demand
demand of
of us
and what
what they
they require
since the
the focus
focus here
here is
is on
on the
the rights
rights of
indigenous peoples
peoples to
to control
control access
access to
to information
information and
and the
the rights
rights of
individuals to
to access
access information
information it
it will
will be
be worthwhile
worthwhile to
to familiarize
ourselves a
a bit
bit with
with the
the literature
literature on
on rights
both those
those who
who champion
champion individual
individual rights
rights to
to access
access and
and use
use information
and those
those who
who assert
assert the
the rights
rights of
of indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples over
over this
information use
use the
the language
language of
of rights
this is
is most
most clear
clear in
in the
the united
united nations
nations declaration
declaration on
on the
the rights
rights of
of indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples and
the library
library bill
bill of
of rights
however it
it is
is also
also a
a powerful
powerful theme
theme in
pnaam which
which states
states for
for example
example that
that libraries
libraries and
and archives
archives must
recognize that
that native
native american
american communities
communities have
have primary
primary rights
rights for
for all
culturally sensitive
sensitive materials
materials that
that are
are culturally
culturally affiliated
affiliated with
these rights
rights apply
apply to
to issues
issues of
of collection
collection preservation
access and
and use
use of
of or
or restrictions
restrictions to
to these
these materials
materials emphasis
it will
will be
be useful
useful then
then to
to briefly
briefly discuss
discuss what
what rights
rights are
and more
more specifically
specifically how
how we
we should
should understand
understand the
the rights
rights claimed
claimed by
those advocating
advocating access
access and
and those
those advocating
advocating the
the rights
rights to
to control
access and
and use
use of
of information
typically when
when someone
someone says
says that
that they
they have
have a
a right
right to
to x
x they
they are
referring to
to what
what the
the rights
rights theorist
theorist w
hohfeld called
called claim
if i
i have
have a
a claim
claim right
right to
to read
read for
for example
example that
means that
that others
others would
would have
have correlative
correlative duties
duties that
that they
they ought
ought to
if i
i have
have a
a claim
claim right
right to
to read
read a
a book
book then
then you
you may
may have
have some
sort of
of duty
duty to
to make
make the
the world
world such
such that
that i
i actually
actually can
can effectively
if you
you fail
fail to
to do
do your
your duty
duty then
then you
you are
are violating
violating my
your duty
duty might
might be
be to
to not
not interfere
so for
for example
example in
asserting my
my right
right to
to read
read i
i may
may be
be saying
saying that
that you
you have
have a
a duty
duty to
to you
refrain from
from criticizing
criticizing me
me publicly
publicly for
for reading
reading the
the book
book turning
turning off
the lights
lights so
so i
i cant
cant read
read the
the book
book or
or to
to remove
remove the
the book
book from
from the
public library
or your
your duty
duty may
may be
be to
to actual
actual in
in some
some way
way assist
assist me
so for
for example
example others
others may
may be
be obligated
obligated to
to fund
fund public
public schools
schools where
where i
would be
be taught
taught to
to read
read and
and public
public libraries
libraries that
that would
would stock
stock this
this and
other books
rights theorists
theorists typically
typically call
call the
the right
right imposes
imposes for
first sort
sort of
of duty
duty on
on others
others a
a negative
negative or
or liberty
liberty right
right and
and the
the right
that imposes
imposes for
for second
second sort
sort of
of duty
duty on
on others
others a
a positive
positive or
or welfare
in other
other words
words if
if i
i have
have a
a liberty
liberty right
right to
to read
read then
others are
are obligated
obligated to
to refrain
refrain from
from interfering
interfering with
with my
my reading
if i
have a
a welfare
welfare right
right to
to read
read others
others are
are obligated
obligated to
to provide
provide me
me the
conditions necessary
necessary for
for reading
below i
i will
will often
often talk
talk about
about the
the contours
contours of
of a
a right
it is
is worth
saying a
a bit
bit here
here about
about what
what i
i mean
mean by
by that
we often
often think
think of
of rights
as simpleyou
simpleyou have
have a
a right
right or
or you
you dont
so for
for example
example if
if i
have a
a property
property right
right to
to my
my car
car then
then we
we might
might think
think of
of it
it as
as a
a sort
sort of
bubble around
around my
my cari
cari can
can do
do what
what i
i want
want with
with my
my cardent
cardent it
it with
with a
hammer paint
paint it
it bright
bright pink
pink and
and others
others cannot
cannot do
do things
things to
to my
my car
without my
my permission
but rights
rights are
are almost
almost never
never so
so simple
there are
all sorts
sorts of
of things
things that
that i
i am
am not
not allowed
allowed to
to do
do to
to or
or with
with my
my cari
cannot drive
drive it
it miles
miles an
an hour
hour on
on a
a city
city street
street i
i cannot
cannot drive
drive a
a car
that pollutes
pollutes etc
thus my
my rights
rights to
to my
my car
car do
do not
not form
form a
a sort
sort of
smooth circle
circle around
around my
my car
car but
but rather
rather has
has contours
contours of
of what
what i
i can
can and
cannot do
do in
in relation
relation to
to my
my car
consider my
my right
right to
to read
read again
we often
often say
say that
that we
we have
have a
constitutional right
right to
to read
read what
what we
we wishagain
wishagain it
it is
is as
as if
if there
there is
is a
bubble of
of protection
protection around
around our
our acts
acts of
of reading
reading that
that forbid
forbid others
others from
interfering with
with them
but this
this bubble
bubble is
is dented
dented with
with all
all sorts
sorts of
you do
do not
not have
have a
a constitutional
constitutional right
right to
to read
read others
private medical
medical records
records to
to read
read pirated
pirated copies
copies of
of a
a work
work to
to read
documents that
that contain
contain national
national secrets
secrets or
or to
to read
read slanderous
slanderous remarks
about someone
in all
all these
these cases
cases the
the government
government is
is permitted
permitted to
to pass
laws to
to restrict
restrict our
our access
access to
to such
such works
our rights
rights to
to read
read have
contours that
that are
are quite
quite complex
given this
this the
the mere
mere fact
fact that
that one
one has
a right
right with
with regard
regard to
to x
x does
does not
not answer
answer the
the question
question as
as to
whether one
one can
can do
do some
some particular
particular thing
thing with
with regard
regard to
to x
it will
depend on
on the
the precise
precise contours
contours of
of the
the right
right in
in question
in particular
exactly what
what actions
actions does
does the
the right
right authorize
with this
this account
account of
of rights
rights at
at our
our disposal
disposal we
we can
can characterize
characterize what
what the
potential conflict
conflict between
between claims
claims of
of rights
rights to
to culture
culture and
and claims
claims to
freedom of
of access
on the
the one
one hand
hand there
there is
is the
the view
view that
that indigenous
peoples have
have a
a right
right to
to control
control access
access to
to cultural
cultural information
means that
that if
if they
they wish
wish they
they may
may assert
assert a
a right
right that
that with
with regard
regard to
certain information
information it
it be
be destroyed
destroyed all
all copies
copies be
be returned
returned to
to the
group or
or that
that while
while the
the information
information objects
objects may
may remain
remain outside
outside the
direct physical
physical control
control of
of the
the group
group access
access this
this information
information should
should be
restricted according
according to
to the
the wishes
wishes of
of the
the group
such a
a right
right would
place a
a duty
duty on
on others
others to
to refrain
refrain from
from accessing
accessing this
this information
information and
may place
place a
a duty
duty on
on the
the current
current stewards
stewards of
of the
the information
information to
ensure that
that the
the rights
rights of
of indigenous
indigenous people
people with
with regard
regard to
to this
information are
are respected
since the
the rights
rights of
of indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples place
a duty
duty on
on others
others not
not to
to access
access information
information in
in some
some cases
cases this
this means
that outsiders
outsiders would
would not
not be
be free
free to
to access
access such
such materials
overlapping consensus
many have
have noted
noted that
that indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples have
have unique
unique perspectives
perspectives on
on the
world that
that provide
provide an
an important
important alternative
alternative to
to western
western perspectives
ermine notes
notes western
western and
and indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples have
have disparate
worldviews each
each formed
formed and
and guided
guided by
by distinct
distinct histories
histories knowledge
traditions values
values interests
interests and
and social
social economic
economic and
and political
indeed this
this difference
difference is
is often
often cited
cited as
as an
important reason
reason that
that such
such cultures
cultures ought
ought to
to be
be protected
protected and
and preserved
however the
the fact
fact that
that indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples have
have unique
unique worldviews
creates a
a special
special challenge
challenge to
to any
any theorist
theorist trying
trying to
to provide
provide a
discussion of
of the
the reasons
reasons that
that might
might support
support their
their rights
rights claims
indigenous peoples
peoples themselves
themselves may
may have
have unique
unique beliefs
beliefs about
about the
the world
and their
their place
place in
in it
it that
that grounds
grounds their
their claims
claims to
to various
various cultural
nonindigenous peoples
peoples should
should recognize
recognize the
the importance
importance that
that such
beliefs have
have for
for indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples and
and ideally
ideally could
could learn
learn new
new and
possibly better
better ways
ways of
of being
being in
in the
the world
nevertheless if
if as
as a
matter of
of fact
fact nonindigenous
nonindigenous peoples
peoples do
do not
not share
share these
these views
views then
then the
reasons that
that may
may be
be compelling
compelling for
for indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples will
will have
have no
no grip
on nonindigenous
nonindigenous peoples
john rawls
rawls was
was the
the preeminent
preeminent political
political philosopher
philosopher of
of the
the late
late th
th and
early st
st century
rawls developed
developed a
a theory
theory of
of how
how principles
principles of
justice might
might be
be grounded
grounded and
and justified
justified without
without appealing
appealing to
to what
what he
called controversial
controversial metaphysical
metaphysical commitments
rawls argued
argued that
in a
a pluralistic
pluralistic society
society such
such as
as many
many of
of us
us live
live in
in we
we cannot
cannot expect
that people
people share
share the
the same
same values
values metaphysical
metaphysical or
or spiritual
perspectives and
and beliefs
he argued
argued however
however that
that in
in such
such a
society we
we can
can agree
agree on
on shared
shared principles
principles via
via an
an overlapping
we can
can each
each support
support a
a principle
principle from
from our
our own
own perspective
while understanding
understanding the
the perspectives
perspectives of
of the
the others
a simple
simple example
from the
the united
united states
states context
context will
will illustrate
illustrate this
consider the
the idea
of the
the separation
separation of
of church
church and
and state
both religious
religious and
and nonreligious
people can
can accept
accept this
this principle
principle as
as expressing
expressing the
the idea
idea of
of the
the freedom
of conscience
however the
the religious
religious person
person may
may be
be committed
committed to
to such
such a
principle on
on the
the grounds
grounds that
that persons
persons should
should come
come to
to god
god as
as a
a matter
matter of
individual conscience
conscience which
which would
would be
be interfered
interfered with
with if
if the
the state
state in
any way
way mandated
mandated a
a particular
particular religion
religion or
or religious
religious instruction
atheist may
may be
be committed
committed to
to such
such a
a principle
principle on
on the
the grounds
grounds that
religions are
are all
all equally
equally false
false but
but given
given that
that people
people are
are personally
committed to
to them
them they
they should
should be
be free
free to
to indulge
indulge in
in their
their religious
beliefs and
and practices
practices as
as much
much as
as any
any other
other private
private club
club or
or activity
the religious
religious person
person and
and the
the atheist
atheist do
do not
not have
have to
to share
share robust
worldviews including
including spiritual
spiritual metaphysical
metaphysical or
or moral
moral beliefs
beliefs in
in order
to share
share a
a commitment
commitment to
to the
the principle
principle of
of the
the separation
separation of
of church
church and
it is
is worth
worth noting
noting that
that this
this view
view is
is not
not based
based on
on skepticism
skepticism about
whether there
there is
is moral
moral or
or religious
religious truth
rather it
it is
is based
based on
on the
philosophical and
and practical
practical recognition
recognition that
that reasonable
reasonable persons
persons differ
on such
such issues
the fact
fact that
that people
people differ
differ is
is not
not based
based on
on the
ignorance or
or perfidy
perfidy of
of some
thoughtful and
and intelligent
intelligent persons
persons of
good will
will can
can have
have very
very different
different views
views about
about the
the nature
nature of
of the
the universe
and the
the place
place of
of human
human beings
beings in
in this
this universe
in the
the rest
rest of
of this
paper i
i try
try to
to find
find principles
principles which
which can
can form
form the
the basis
basis of
of an
overlapping consensus
consensus of
of both
both indigenous
indigenous and
and nonindigenous
nonindigenous peoples
justifications for
for limiting
limiting access
access to
to information
as noted
noted above
above rights
rights are
are always
always complex
to say
say we
we have
have a
a right
right to
to free
speech is
is not
not to
to say
say that
that we
we can
can say
say whatever
whatever we
we want
want or
or publish
whatever we
we want
there are
are many
many limitations
limitations on
on free
free speech
speech with
with which
we are
are quite
quite comfortable
comfortable and
and familiar
we often
often do
do not
not think
think of
of them
them as
limitations because
because we
we simply
simply dont
dont think
think of
of certain
certain activities
activities as
being covered
covered by
by a
a right
right to
to free
free speech
here i
i am
am going
going to
to focus
focus on
the limitations
limitations standardly
standardly found
found in
in u
we we
we can
can roughly
categorize such
such rationales
rationales for
for limiting
limiting speech
speech as
as the
the following
copyright or
or intellectual
intellectual property
property more
more generally
generally secrecy
secrecy including
government secrecy
secrecy and
and trade
trade secrets
secrets harmful
harmful material
material including
including such
things as
as obscenity
obscenity and
and child
child pornography
pornography and
and privacy
intellectual property
the most
most commonly
commonly given
given account
account of
of the
the basis
basis of
of the
the putative
putative right
right of
indigenous peoples
peoples to
to control
control access
access to
to cultural
cultural information
information is
intellectual property
the rights
rights of
of authors
authors under
under copyright
copyright include
the exclusive
exclusive right
right to
to publish
publish a
a work
work to
to publicly
publicly display
display the
the work
work to
make copies
copies of
of the
the work
work and
and to
to create
create derivative
derivative works
works based
based on
on the
original work
if indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples hold
hold copyright
copyright in
in their
cultural information
information then
then it
it would
would be
be prohibited
prohibited for
for outsiders
outsiders to
reproduce cultural
cultural information
information to
to display
display it
it or
or to
to copy
copy it
so for
example it
it would
would prohibit
prohibit a
a person
person from
from placing
placing a
a traditional
traditional song
image or
or story
story on
on the
the internet
internet without
without the
the prior
prior permission
permission of
of the
tribe to
to whom
whom this
this song
song image
image or
or story
story belongs
the foundational
foundational idea
idea of
of intellectual
intellectual property
property is
is that
that authors
authors have
rights in
in their
their creations
and in
in many
many cases
cases the
the author
author of
of a
a work
is not
not a
a single
single individual
individual but
but a
a group
group of
of individuals
in such
such cases
the copyright
copyright is
is often
often held
held by
by a
a collective
collective entity
entity of
of which
which these
individuals are
are members
think for
for example
example of
of the
the copyright
copyright that
that is
held by
by the
the disney
disney corporation
the works
works in
in question
question are
are often
often the
creation of
of a
a large
large number
number of
of persons
persons working
working together
together under
under the
the aegis
of disney
similarly traditional
traditional songs
songs stories
stories visual
visual works
works etc
the creations
creations of
of individual
individual indigenous
indigenous persons
persons working
working together
together as
members of
of a
a particular
particular tribe
following the
the logic
logic of
of intellectual
property indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples would
would have
have authorship
authorship rights
rights in
in their
culture because
because it
it is
is their
their collective
collective creation
there are
are a
a number
number of
of ways
ways in
in which
which copyright
copyright seems
seems exactly
exactly suited
suited to
the sorts
sorts of
of rights
rights that
that indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples claim
claim in
in their
their cultural
however there
there are
are a
a number
number of
of features
features of
of copyright
copyright at
least as
as it
it has
has been
been established
established in
in the
the u
constitution and
and law
law that
make it
it a
a poor
poor fit
fit as
as a
a paradigm
paradigm for
for the
the rights
rights that
that indigenous
indigenous peoples
have in
in relation
relation to
to their
their cultural
cultural information
first the
the tradition
tradition of
of copyright
copyright in
in the
the angloamerican
angloamerican context
context has
always been
been that
that it
it is
is time
time limited
indeed originally
originally copyright
copyright could
only be
be held
held for
for years
years with
with one
one possible
possible extension
even now
while the
the period
period of
of copyright
copyright has
has been
been significantly
significantly extended
extended to
to life
of the
the author
author plus
plus years
years or
or for
for corporations
corporations years
years after
after the
publication of
of the
the work
the idea
idea behind
behind these
these limitations
limitations is
is that
that the
rights of
of authors
authors to
to their
their cultural
cultural property
property must
must be
be balanced
balanced against
the importance
importance of
of the
the free
free flow
flow of
of information
information characterized
characterized by
by the
public domain
even if
if we
we argued
argued that
that all
all cultural
cultural information
information should
now be
be repatriated
repatriated based
based on
on the
the argument
argument that
that past
past publication
publication of
of the
works were
were forced
forced rather
rather than
than a
a genuine
genuine choice
choice of
of the
the peoples
peoples in
question any
any future
future publication
publication public
public performance
performance etc
of the
the works
would start
start the
the clock
clock ticking
indigenous peoples
peoples would
would likely
likely not
not be
happy with
with the
the thought
thought that
that if
if they
they in
in any
any way
way publicly
publicly share
share their
culture they
they will
will lose
lose rights
rights over
over it
it in
in one
one hundred
hundred years
precisely do
do not
not conceive
conceive of
of their
their culture
culture as
as something
something that
that can
can go
go into
the public
public domain
domain of
of the
the larger
larger culture
culture to
to be
be used
used as
as persons
persons wish
second in
in order
order for
for a
a work
work to
to qualify
qualify for
for copyright
copyright it
it must
must be
be fixed
in a
a tangible
tangible form
form of
of expression
thus for
for cultures
cultures that
have traditionally
traditionally had
had strong
strong oral
oral traditions
traditions where
where works
works may
may not
not be
written down
down copyright
copyright would
would not
not cover
cover such
such cultural
cultural information
indeed as
as long
long as
as a
a work
work is
is oral
oral and
and not
not written
written the
the copyright
copyright would
belong to
to the
the person
person or
or group
group who
who records
records or
or writes
writes down
down a
a story
story or
song not
not to
to the
the person
person or
or group
group who
who originated
originated the
the story
story or
or song
third the
the rights
rights of
of authors
authors under
under copyright
copyright only
only cover
cover the
the form
form of
of the
expression not
not the
the idea
idea or
or story
story expressed
with regard
regard to
to a
a story
for example
example it
it covers
covers the
the actual
actual words
words used
used to
to tell
tell the
the story
story not
not the
form or
or type
type of
of story
story itself
this is
is even
even more
more true
true for
for descriptions
of practices
while an
an indigenous
indigenous group
group may
may have
have copyright
copyright on
on a
particular description
description of
of a
a practice
practice that
that they
they engage
engage in
in they
they do
do not
have copyright
copyright over
over the
the description
description of
of this
this practice
and unless
unless they
write down
down or
or record
record the
the particular
particular movements
movements of
of the
the practice
practice they
they have
no copyright
copyright over
over it
it if
if others
others come
come to
to know
know about
about it
finally even
even if
if indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples were
were willing
willing to
to accept
accept time
time limits
or even
even if
if we
we were
were willing
willing to
to remove
remove the
the time
time limits
limits in
in cases
cases of
indigenous cultural
cultural information
information there
there are
are fair
fair use
use exceptions
exceptions to
to all
of the
the exclusive
exclusive rights
rights that
that authors
authors have
have in
in their
their works
no author
author has
complete control
control over
over his
his or
or her
her works
others may
may use
use or
or quote
quote from
the work
work for
for the
the purposes
purposes of
of commentary
commentary and
and criticism
others may
may use
small pieces
pieces not
not central
central to
to the
the work
work in
in transformative
transformative uses
if the
the use
use is
is for
for scholarly
scholarly as
as opposed
opposed to
to monetary
monetary gain
gain there
there is
is more
room for
for fair
fair use
it is
is not
not clear
clear that
that indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples would
would find
such exceptions
exceptions acceptable
it is
is a
a mistake
mistake to
to think
think that
that indigenous
peoples only
only object
object to
to their
their works
works being
being used
used by
by others
others for
for monetary
it is
is the
the inappropriate
inappropriate access
access and
and use
use of
of such
such information
information that
is the
the problem
problem and
and the
the inappropriateness
inappropriateness can
can equally
equally be
be in
in someone
someone who
is using
using the
the works
works for
for scholarly
scholarly or
or educational
educational purposes
secrecytrade and
and state
the law
law also
also protects
protects the
the right
right of
of certain
certain groups
groups to
to keep
keep information
some of
of this
this falls
falls under
under the
the rubric
rubric of
of intellectual
intellectual property
property in
the form
form of
of trade
trade secrets
there are
are also
also laws
laws protecting
protecting state
some have
have argued
argued that
that trade
trade or
or state
state secrets
secrets are
are the
the right
model for
for justifying
justifying and
and protecting
protecting indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples rights
rights to
to their
cultural property
according to
to the
the uniform
uniform trade
trade secrets
secrets act
act a
a trade
trade secret
secret is
information including
including a
a formula
formula pattern
pattern compilation
compilation program
device method
method technique
technique or
or process
process that
that i
i derives
derives independent
economic value
value actual
actual or
or potential
potential from
from not
not being
being generally
generally known
known to
and not
not being
being readily
readily ascertainable
ascertainable by
by proper
proper means
means by
by other
other persons
who can
can obtain
obtain economic
economic value
value from
from its
its disclosure
disclosure or
or use
use and
and ii
ii is
the subject
subject of
of efforts
efforts that
that are
are reasonable
reasonable under
under the
the circumstances
circumstances to
maintain its
its secrecy
there are
are features
features of
of trade
trade secrecy
secrecy that
that again
again seem
seem to
to make
make it
it a
a poor
fit for
for indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples rights
rights to
to cultural
cultural information
it is
like other
other things
things covered
covered by
by intellectual
intellectual property
property law
law intended
intended to
promote discovery
discovery and
and innovation
the idea
idea is
is that
that people
people will
will not
not be
able to
to spend
spend the
the time
time as
as a
a group
group developing
developing new
new products
products inventions
or techniques
techniques if
if their
their work
work can
can be
be taken
taken and
and used
used by
by others
particular the
the focus
focus is
is on
on economic
economic or
or monetary
monetary value
value that
that a
a secret
secret may
potentially have
have had
thus the
the value
value that
that indigenous
indigenous persons
persons may
may place
on some
some information
information being
being secret
secret is
is not
not captured
captured in
in the
the current
current law
law on
trade secrets
some have
have suggested
suggested that
that indigenous
indigenous cultural
cultural information
information is
is akin
akin to
state secrets
in one
one way
way state
state secrets
secrets seem
seem a
a better
better fit
they do
do not
focus on
on monetary
monetary value
value or
or in
in promoting
promoting innovation
however they
they do
focus on
on protecting
protecting security
according to
to the
the united
united states
states court
court of
appeals the
the state
state secrets
secrets privilege
privilege is
is a
a hyperlink
orgwikicommonlaw common
common law
law evidentiary
evidentiary rule
that allows
allows the
the government
government to
to withhold
withhold information
information from
from discovery
discovery when
disclosure would
would be
be inimical
inimical to
to national
national security
it is
is not
clear that
that all
all or
or even
even most
most the
the cultural
cultural information
information that
that indigenous
peoples would
would want
want to
to protect
protect would
would fall
fall under
under the
the concept
concept of
of a
a state
secret necessary
necessary to
to protect
protect security
if it
it is
is protect
protect the
the security
security of
their land
land then
then this
this may
may give
give indigenous
indigenous persons
persons an
an internal
internal reason
reason to
have customs
customs policies
policies or
or laws
laws protecting
protecting such
such information
this would
limit the
the information
information so
so protected
protected to
to that
that which
which could
could be
be legitimately
understood as
as necessary
necessary to
to protect
protect the
the security
security of
of the
the indigenous
indigenous people
in question
furthermore the
the idea
idea that
that certain
certain information
information is
secret depends
depends on
on the
the fact
fact that
that they
they have
have not
not been
been revealed
seems to
to be
be little
little sense
sense in
in saying
saying that
that something
something that
that has
has been
published and
and has
has been
been widely
widely available
available in
in libraries
libraries and
and the
the internet
internet is
secret information
thus an
an appeal
appeal to
to secrecy
secrecy would
would not
not provide
grounds for
for repatriating
repatriating information
harmful material
in addition
addition to
to intellectual
intellectual property
property and
and secrecy
secrecy limitations
limitations on
on access
to information
information u
law also
also has
has provisions
provisions to
to limit
limit peoples
peoples access
to harmful
harmful information
information may
may be
be harmful
harmful in
in the
the sense
that a
a person
person can
can use
use the
the information
information to
to engage
engage in
in harmful
harmful activities
so for
for example
example we
we might
might limit
limit peoples
peoples access
access to
to information
information about
the security
security plans
plans of
of a
a power
power plant
plant or
or town
town reservoir
information may
be considered
considered harmful
harmful in
in the
the sense
sense that
that it
it is
is harmful
harmful for
for people
people to
to be
exposed to
to certain
certain information
so for
for example
example there
there are
are limitations
on how
how much
much graphic
graphic violence
violence can
can be
be shown
shown on
on broadcast
broadcast television
idea is
is that
that it
it can
can be
be upsetting
upsetting to
to people
people to
to be
be unwittingly
unwittingly exposed
exposed to
such material
and some
some may
may even
even think
think that
that information
information may
may be
be harmful
to some
some children
children but
but not
not necessarily
necessarily harmful
harmful to
to others
others adults
thus the
the law
law limits
limits childrens
childrens access
access to
to certain
certain sorts
sorts of
of explicit
sexual material
material while
while not
not limiting
limiting adults
adults access
access to
to such
such material
it may
may be
be argued
argued that
that certain
certain indigenous
indigenous cultural
cultural information
information can
can be
harmful if
if accessed
accessed by
by the
the wrong
wrong person
person in
in the
the wrong
wrong way
arguments that
that information
information may
may be
be harmful
harmful are
are frequently
frequently a
a subject
subject of
quite strong
strong disagreement
disagreement and
and debate
debate decisions
decisions about
about whether
whether material
may be
be restricted
restricted due
due to
to putative
putative harm
harm is
is standardly
standardly determined
determined through
democratic processes
processes as
as constrained
constrained by
by the
the constitution
it is
is very
possible that
that nonindigenous
nonindigenous persons
persons will
will not
not share
share the
the views
views of
indigenous persons
persons about
about the
the harm
harm that
that could
could result
result from
from exposure
exposure to
songs images
images or
or information
information about
about religious
religious practices
in other
words the
the harm
harm justification
justification is
is unlikely
unlikely to
to gain
gain an
an overlapping
privacy and
and confidentiality
the final
final justification
justification for
for limiting
limiting access
access to
to information
information is
is based
based on
claims of
of privacy
privacy or
or confidentiality
informational privacy
privacy concerns
information about
about persons
persons which
which is
is considered
considered sensitive
according to
to ronald
ronald standler
standler for
for example
example privacy
privacy is
is the
expectation that
that confidential
confidential personal
personal information
information disclosed
disclosed in
in a
private place
place will
will not
not be
be disclosed
disclosed to
to third
third parties
parties when
when that
disclosure would
would cause
cause either
either embarrassment
embarrassment or
or emotional
emotional distress
distress to
to a
person of
of reasonable
reasonable sensitivities
information is
is interpreted
interpreted broadly
to include
include facts
facts images
images e
photographs videotapes
videotapes and
disparaging opinions
on the
the face
face of
of it
it privacy
privacy may
may seem
seem to
to be
be the
the least
least likely
likely candidate
candidate for
grounding indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples rights
rights to
to cultural
cultural information
tends to
to think
think of
of privacy
privacy as
as essentially
essentially an
an individual
individual right
indeed a
number of
of authors
authors have
have specifically
specifically characterized
characterized the
the right
right of
of privacy
as the
the right
right to
to be
be let
let alone
and the
the supreme
supreme court
court in
rejecting the
the claim
claim of
of a
a corporate
corporate right
right to
to privacy
privacy held
held that
corporations can
can claim
claim no
no equality
equality with
with individuals
individuals in
in the
the enjoyment
of a
a right
right to
to privacy
indeed some
some have
have actually
actually characterized
a right
right to
to privacy
privacy as
as a
a right
right to
to individuality
this seems
seems on
on the
face of
of it
it to
to exclude
exclude groups
groups such
such as
as tribes
tribes or
or clans
clans from
from defending
their claim
claim to
to their
their cultural
cultural information
information as
as a
a type
type of
of right
right to
to privacy
however i
i want
want to
to argue
argue that
that indeed
indeed there
there is
is a
a notion
notion of
of group
group privacy
and that
that it
it can
can provide
provide the
the best
best grounds
grounds for
for indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples rights
to limit
limit access
access to
to their
their cultural
cultural information
the value
value of
of the
the right
to group
group privacyto
privacyto control
control what
what information
information those
those outside
outside of
of the
group have
have about
about the
the groupis
groupis essentially
essentially the
the same
same value
value as
as individual
we can
can find
find three
three accounts
accounts of
of the
the underlying
underlying values
values that
that a
privacy right
right serves
serves in
in the
the literature
literature on
on privacy
we can
can call
call these
strands the
the consequentialist
consequentialist the
the kantian
kantian liberal
liberal and
and the
the communitarian
all of
of these
these views
views provide
provide support
support for
for a
a group
group right
right to
to privacy
in cultural
cultural information
consequentialist defense
defense of
of group
group privacy
on the
the consequentialist
consequentialist view
view the
the value
value of
of privacy
privacy is
is that
that it
it allows
allows us
to gain
gain certain
certain benefits
benefits and
and avoid
avoid certain
certain harms
posner discusses
discusses this
feature of
of privacy
privacy in
in an
an article
article that
that in
in general
general is
is skeptical
skeptical about
about the
value of
of privacy
he argues
argues that
that certain
certain sorts
sorts of
of goodse
those that
that require
require confidentiality
confidentiality could
could not
not be
be enjoyed
enjoyed without
some argue
argue that
that the
the fact
fact that
that people
people find
find invasions
invasions of
of privacy
personally distressing
distressing provides
provides at
at least
least some
some moral
moral grounds
grounds for
preventing and
and avoiding
avoiding such
such invasions
it is
is obvious
obvious that
that the
the groups
groups ability
ability to
to control
control access
access to
to their
cultural information
information will
will often
often have
have good
good consequences
first in
in line
with posners
posners argument
argument it
it will
will make
make them
them more
more willing
willing to
to share
information among
among themselves
themselves and
and with
with outsiders
outsiders if
if they
they know
know that
that they
can control
control the
the extent
extent to
to which
which such
such information
information is
is disseminated
is valuable
valuable for
for the
the ability
ability of
of the
the group
group to
to have
have a
a rich
rich culture
culture and
allows a
a freer
freer flow
flow of
of information
information to
to the
the outside
if the
the group
group has
has no
ability to
to control
control the
the dissemination
dissemination of
of information
information about
about their
their culture
they may
may be
be less
less likely
likely to
to share
share such
such information
information for
for fear
fear that
that it
it will
leak out
out into
into the
the public
public domain
second it
it is
is clear
clear that
that many
indigenous peoples
peoples find
find it
it distressing
distressing for
for outsiders
outsiders to
to know
know about
publicly display
display etc
cultural information
thus limiting
limiting others
ability to
to do
do this
this will
will avoid
avoid the
the bad
bad consequences
consequences of
of this
this distress
kantian liberal
liberal defense
defense of
of group
group privacy
the kantian
kantian liberal
liberal view
view holds
holds that
that privacy
privacy is
is essential
essential to
to human
in particular
particular it
it is
is argued
argued that
that privacy
privacy provides
provides a
a sphere
sphere of
autonomy for
for individuals
individuals which
which is
is necessary
necessary for
for them
them to
to live
authentically human
human lives
if others
others can
can use
use personal
personal information
about me
me for
for their
their own
own ends
ends they
they fail
fail to
to treat
treat me
me with
with dignity
dignity as
as a
human being
and if
if others
others can
can observe
observe me
me without
without my
permission they
they interfere
interfere with
with my
my ability
ability to
to make
make my
my own
own choices
choices free
from external
external scrutiny
i call
call this
this view
view the
the kantian
kantian liberal
liberal view
view of
privacy because
because its
its emphasis
emphasis on
on the
the importance
importance of
of individual
autonomy is
is clearly
clearly inspired
inspired by
by kants
kants idea
idea that
that persons
persons are
fundamentally rational
rational beings
beings capable
capable of
of choice
choice and
and his
his categorical
imperative that
that persons
persons ought
ought not
not be
be treated
treated as
as a
a means
it is
is liberal
insofar as
as it
it focuses
focuses on
on the
the liberty
liberty of
of the
the individual
individual and
and the
fundamental grounds
grounds of
of our
our capacity
capacity for
for individuality
individuality and
and individual
it is
is not
not only
only individuals
individuals but
but also
also groups
groups that
that may
may be
we can
can call
call this
this collective
collective autonomy
collective autonomy
autonomy is
is closely
closely tied
tied to
to the
the concepts
concepts of
selfdetermination and
and sovereignty
in order
order to
to have
have collective
autonomy we
we may
may argue
argue that
that a
a group
group needs
needs what
what loretta
loretta todd
todd has
has called
cultural autonomy
according to
to todd
todd cultural
cultural autonomy
signifies a
a right
right to
to ones
ones origins
origins and
and histories
histories as
as told
told from
within the
the culture
culture and
and not
not as
as mediated
mediated from
from without
this right
to cultural
cultural autonomy
autonomy is
is violated
violated when
when others
others appropriate
appropriate cultural
as todd
todd describes
describes it
it appropriation
appropriation occurs
occurs when
when someone
else speaks
speaks for
for tells
tells defines
defines describes
describes represents
represents uses
uses or
recruits the
the images
images stories
stories experiences
experiences dreams
dreams of
of others
others for
for their
this idea
idea is
is closely
closely tied
tied to
to the
the argument
argument that
that bloustein
makes that
that personal
personal dignity
dignity is
is harmed
harmed when
when persons
persons are
are used
used as
as a
means to
to others
others entertainment
entertainment curiousity
curiousity or
or economic
economic gain
such a
a case
case a
a persons
persons dignity
dignity and
and ability
ability to
to control
control his
his own
lifeby having
having control
control over
over his
his identity
identity are
are harmed
in a
a similar
way a
a group
group that
that cannot
cannot have
have some
some control
control over
over how
how its
its identity
identity as
defined when
when its
its culture
culture is
is used
used exploited
exploited is
is treated
treated as
as a
a means
rather than
than as
as an
an end
end in
in itself
communitarian defense
defense of
of group
group privacy
the communitarian
communitarian view
view of
of the
the value
value of
of privacy
privacy holds
holds that
that privacy
privacy is
essential to
to us
us as
as social
social beings
in particular
particular it
it allows
allows us
to modulate
modulate how
how much
much and
and what
what type
type of
of information
information that
that others
others have
have about
this allows
allows us
us to
to form
form intimate
intimate relationships
relationships by
by selectively
revealing private
private information
information to
to some
some persons
according to
to charles
fried for
for example
example intimacy
intimacy requires
requires that
that we
we have
have the
the ability
ability to
to reveal
information about
about ourselves
ourselves which
which we
we do
do not
not reveal
reveal to
to all
privacy is
thus a
a means
means to
to modulate
modulate degrees
degrees of
of friendship
friendship privacy
provides freedom
freedom to
to define
define ourselves
ourselves in
in relation
relation to
to others
others by
by not
revealing our
our every
every thought
the communitarian
communitarian argument
argument can
can also
also be
be marshaled
marshaled to
to defend
defend a
a group
group right
to privacy
group privacy
privacy is
is important
important for
for both
both the
the capacity
capacity for
members within
within the
the group
group to
to form
form relationships
relationships and
and engage
engage in
in various
social and
and cultural
cultural activities
activities and
and to
to modulate
modulate their
their relationships
relationships with
external individuals
individuals and
and groups
the connection
connection between
between privacy
privacy and
the ability
ability to
to form
form relationships
relationships can
can also
also be
be seen
seen in
in the
the case
case of
of group
group privacy
privacy is
is necessary
necessary for
for the
the creation
creation and
and maintenance
maintenance of
both internal
internal relationships
relationships among
among the
the members
members of
of a
a group
group and
and external
relationships between
between the
the group
group and
and other
other groups
groups or
or individual
individual nongroup
indeed gerstein
gerstein specifically
specifically makes
makes this
this connection
connection in
in his
discussion of
of privacy
he notes
notes that
that from
from within
within the
the experience
experience of
a religious
religious ceremony
ceremony its
its significance
significance depends
depends on
on its
its religious
religious meaning
for the
the participants
this means
means that
that there
there will
will always
always be
be the
threat of
of the
the degeneration
degeneration of
of the
the religious
religious act
act into
into a
a mere
mere form
form a
hollow shell
shell with
with nothing
nothing but
but its
its surface
surface attractiveness
attractiveness to
to give
give it
again the
the need
need to
to deal
deal with
with this
this threat
threat from
from within
within makes
makes it
necessary to
to resist
resist observation
observation from
from without
the presence
presence of
of the
onlooker if
if it
it is
is not
not met
met with
with resistance
resistance makes
makes those
those involved
involved in
in the
ceremony accomplices
accomplices in
in a
a concentration
concentration on
on the
the surface
surface of
of things
things at
expense of
of inner
inner meaning
he argues
argues that
that even
even if
if ones
actions are
are motivated
motivated by
by noble
noble goals
goals they
they can
can be
be destructive
destructive to
to the
meaning of
of the
the act
act for
for the
the participant
he may
may well
feel as
as sense
sense of
of desecration
desecration whenever
whenever what
what was
was to
to function
function purely
purely as
part of
of the
the expression
expression of
of a
a relationship
relationship between
between himself
himself and
and his
his god
god is
made use
use of
of by
by otherseven
otherseven as
as a
a means
means of
of learning
learning about
about that
limitations on
on group
group privacy
if we
we accept
accept the
the idea
idea that
that indigenous
indigenous groups
groups have
have a
a right
right to
to cultural
privacy which
which places
places a
a duty
duty on
on states
states and
and individuals
individuals to
to limit
limit access
to certain
certain sorts
sorts of
of cultural
cultural information
we are
are still
still faced
faced with
with an
important question
why do
do indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples in
in particular
particular have
have a
right to
to cultural
cultural privacy
privacy what
what about
about other
other groups
groups such
such as
scientology the
the catholic
catholic church
church the
the american
american library
library association
association the
amish do
do they
they also
also have
have rights
rights to
to cultural
cultural privacy
privacy that
that we
we have
have a
a duty
to respect
there are
are a
a number
number of
of features
features of
of the
the case
case of
of indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples that
make their
their claim
claim to
to cultural
cultural privacy
privacy much
much stronger
first recall
recall that
the function
function of
of privacy
privacy protections
protections is
is to
to protect
protect and
and enhance
enhance autonomy
individual or
or collective
collective and
and to
to preserve
preserve individuality
individuality personal
personal or
some sorts
sorts of
of entities
entities have
have a
a greater
greater claim
claim to
to autonomy
promoting protections
protections than
than othersadults
othersadults more
more than
than children
children humans
more than
than animals
interestingly it
it is
is because
because some
some entities
entities have
have a
greater capacity
capacity for
for autonomy
autonomy and
and a
a greater
greater need
need for
for it
it that
that we
we are
are more
concerned to
to promote
promote it
some groups
groups have
have a
a greater
greater capacity
capacity and
and need
for autonomy
autonomy than
than others
the more
more comprehensive
comprehensive a
a group
group isthe
more aspects
aspects of
of life
life it
it encompasses
encompasses the
the greater
greater its
its capacity
capacity and
and need
for autonomy
autonomy or
or selfrule
indigenous groups
groups often
often encompass
multiple aspects
aspects of
of their
their members
members livesspiritual
livesspiritual physical
educational political
political etc
other groups
groups such
such as
as the
the american
american library
association for
for instance
instance do
do not
not have
have this
this sort
sort of
of comprehensive
the ala
ala only
only encompasses
encompasses the
the professional
professional lives
lives of
of its
typically members
members will
will belong
belong to
to many
many other
other sorts
sorts of
of groups
which will
will encompass
encompass other
other parts
parts of
of their
their livesfamily
livesfamily religion
political party
party ethnic
ethnic group
given this
this the
the ala
ala has
has both
both less
less of
of a
capacity to
to be
be fully
fully an
an autonomous
autonomous group
group and
and it
it has
has less
less of
of an
an important
role in
in the
the lives
lives of
of its
its members
thus such
such comprehensive
comprehensive communities
as indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples will
will require
require greater
greater autonomy
autonomy thus
thus will
will have
have a
stronger claim
claim to
to informational
informational privacy
secondly it
it may
may be
be that
that there
there are
are certain
certain contextual
contextual features
features of
of some
groups that
that provide
provide grounds
grounds for
for greater
greater informational
informational privacy
two dimensions
dimensions of
of the
the context
context of
of indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples give
them greater
greater claim
claim to
to cultural
cultural privacy
privacy than
than many
many other
other groups
groups their
current context
context and
and the
the historical
historical context
context of
of genocide
genocide forced
assimilation and
and cultural
cultural appropriation
in the
the current
current national
national and
international context
context many
many indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples are
are parts
parts of
of larger
larger states
or cultural
cultural groups
groups that
that are
are both
both culturally
culturally different
different and
and culturally
dominant there
there is
is a
a greater
greater need
need for
for that
that groups
groups culture
culture to
to be
the case
case of
of indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples indeed
indeed is
is of
of particular
note because
because they
they face
face not
not just
just neglect
neglect discrimination
discrimination and
and swamping
by the
the majority
majority culture
culture but
but the
the active
active appropriation
appropriation and
and exploitation
by the
the majority
majority culture
many within
within majority
majority cultures
cultures do
do not
not just
neglect the
the cultures
cultures of
of indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples but
but try
try to
to attain
attain some
some sort
of false
false authenticity
authenticity through
through acts
acts of
of appropriation
such acts
acts of
appropriation are
are often
often also
also commercializing
commercializing and
and imply
imply that
that the
the cultures
are dead
dead or
or something
something of
of the
the past
past rather
rather than
than living
living cultures
within which
which people
people find
find meaning
meaning and
and live
live their
their lives
appropriation threatens
threatens the
the meanings
meanings of
of the
the culture
culture for
for those
those who
who live
within it
this is
is a
a sort
sort of
of threat
threat that
that is
is not
not faced
faced by
by such
such groups
groups as
those listed
listed above
given that
that the
the last
last two
two reasons
reasons for
for supporting
supporting a
a duty
duty to
to respect
respect the
right to
to cultural
cultural privacy
privacy on
on the
the part
part of
of indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples are
are heavily
contextual it
it may
may be
be that
that such
such rights
rights and
and the
the concomitant
concomitant duties
duties are
remedial rather
rather than
than eternal
while the
the concept
concept of
of cultural
cultural privacy
privacy is
important it
it may
may be
be that
that the
the values
values of
of free
free flow
flow of
of information
information are
sufficiently important
important that
that when
when a
a group
group is
is culturally
culturally strong
strong we
we should
strike a
a different
different balance
balance from
from the
the one
one we
we strike
strike when
when the
the group
group had
had not
had the
the power
power to
to use
use normal
normal means
means to
to protect
protect its
its culture
culture in
in the
the past
there are
are however
however important
important limits
limits to
to the
the rights
rights of
of cultural
cultural privacy
it is
is important
important to
to note
note that
that indigenous
indigenous groups
groups do
do not
not exist
exist in
in a
a realm
separate from
from other
other groups
groups and
and individuals
individuals thus
thus it
it is
is neither
neither possible
nor feasible
feasible that
that they
they have
have absolute
absolute privacy
what they
they do
affects others
others and
and insofar
insofar as
as they
they engage
engage with
with others
others there
there needs
needs to
to be
some degree
degree of
of transparency
transparency in
in their
their interactions
interactions and
and they
they need
need to
to be
open to
to discussion
discussion and
and criticism
in particular
particular it
it is
is important
important that
that we
we address
address concerns
concerns that
that privacy
claims may
may be
be used
used to
to cover
cover up
up corruption
corruption abuses
abuses of
of power
power deception
as judith
judith decew
decew has
has pointed
pointed out
out privacy
privacy appears
appears to
to be
something we
we value
value to
to provide
provide a
a sphere
sphere within
within which
which we
we can
can be
be free
free from
interference by
by others
others and
and yet
yet it
it also
also appears
appears to
to function
function negatively
as the
the cloak
cloak under
under which
which one
one can
can hide
hide domination
domination degradation
degradation or
physical harm
harm to
to women
women and
and others
privacy claims
claims may
may be
be used
used to
block any
any public
public criticism
criticism by
by arguing
arguing that
that the
the criticism
criticism includes
private information
information about
about the
the group
given this
this it
it will
will be
important to
to carve
carve out
out room
room for
for a
a kind
kind of
of whistle
whistle blower
blower exception
exception to
the rights
rights of
of groups
groups to
to protect
protect their
their cultural
cultural privacy
finally the
the right
right of
of group
group privacy
privacy should
should not
not be
be understood
understood as
there are
are other
other rights
rights of
of individuals
individuals as
as human
human beingsas
encoded in
in the
the u
declaration of
of human
human rights
rights with
with which
which these
these group
rights must
must be
be balanced
thus if
if some
some practice
practice is
is abusive
abusive of
individual persons
persons the
the right
right that
that the
the group
group has
has to
to privacy
privacy is
of course
course some
some may
may object
object to
to any
any restriction
restriction on
on the
grounds that
that any
any outside
outside interference
interference will
will be
be tantamount
tantamount to
imperialistically imposing
imposing values
however the
the presumption
presumption of
of this
paper is
is that
that there
there are
are some
some shared
shared values
values to
to which
which we
we may
may agree
insofar as
as the
the indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples points
points of
of view
view are
are represented
represented in
the undir
undir they
they are
are committed
committed to
to the
the provisions
provisions of
of the
the u
human rights
it is
is the
the view
view expressed
expressed in
in undir
undir that
that there
there is
is no
contradiction between
between the
the rights
rights of
of indigenous
indigenous peoples
peoples and
and the
individual rights
rights as
as expressed
expressed in
in the
the undhr
undhr which
which include
include rights
rights of
expression and
and access
access to
to informatoin
united nations
general assembly
united nations
nations declaration
declaration on
the rights
rights of
of indigenous
indigenous peoples
new york
york united
united nations
brown michael
who owns
owns native
native culture
culture cambridge
cambridge massachusetts
harvard university
university press
nason james
james d
traditional property
property and
and modern
modern laws
laws the
the need
need for
native american
american community
community intellectual
intellectual property
property rights
rights legislation
stanford law
law and
and policy
policy review
first archivists
archivists circle
protocols for
for native
native american
american archival
doi httpwww
national park
park service
department of
of the
the interior
nagpra fy
fy midyear
midyear report
doi httpwww
public law
law nov
alfino mark
mark and
and pierce
pierce linda
information ethics
ethics for
for librarians
jefferson north
north carolina
carolina mcfarland
griswold v
ea u
american library
library association
intellectual freedom
freedom manual
american library
library association
association chicago
chicago il
heins marjorie
on protecting
protecting childrenfrom
childrenfrom censorship
censorship a
a reply
to amitai
amitai etzioni
chicagokent law
law review
boaz martha
in encyclopedia
encyclopedia of
of library
library and
information science
science ed
bates mary
mary niles
niles drake
drake miriam
york marcel
marcel dekker
hohfeld w
fundamental legal
legal conceptions
conceptions w
cook ed
haven yale
yale university
university press
wenar leif
the stanford
stanford encyclopedia
encyclopedia of
of philosophy
winter edition
edition edward
edward n
ermine willie
ethical space
space transforming
transforming relations
rawls john
the idea
idea of
of an
an overlapping
overlapping consensus
oxford journal
of legal
legal studies
copyright act
act u
samuels edward
the illustrated
illustrated story
story of
of copyright
thomas dunne
martins press
press new
new york
york ny
national conference
conference of
of commissioners
commissioners on
on uniform
uniform state
state laws
trade secrets
secrets act
doi httpnsi
zuckerbraun v
general dynamics
dynamics corp
d d
d cir
standler ronald
privacy law
law in
in the
the united
united states
warren s
and brandeis
brandeis l
the right
right to
to privacy
harvard law
morton salt
salt co
posner r
privacy secrecy
secrecy and
and reputation
the university
university of
chicago il
bloustein e
privacy as
as an
an aspect
aspect of
of human
human dignity
dignity an
an answer
answer to
dean prosser
new york
york university
university law
law review
fried charles
privacy a
a moral
moral analysis
dimensions of
of privacy
privacy an
an anthology
schoeman f
university press
press cambridge
gerstein robert
robert s
intimacy and
and privacy
philosophical dimensions
of privacy
privacy an
an anthology
schoeman f
cambridge university
press cambridge
margalit avishai
avishai halbertal
halbertal moshe
moshe liberalism
liberalism and
and the
the right
right to
social research
research pp
decew judith
the stanford
stanford encyclopedia
encyclopedia of
of philosophy
fall edition
edition edward
edward n
