information dissemination
dissemination and
and information
information assurance
assurance in
vehicular networks
networks a
a survey
prashant krishnamurthy
school of
of information
information sciences
sciences university
university of
of pittsburgh
bellefield avenue
pittsburgh pa
vehicular networks
networks aimed
aimed toward
toward providing
providing roadside
roadside services
such as
as traffic
traffic alerts
alerts estimated
estimated time
time to
to reach
reach a
a destination
alternative routes
routes and
and in
in general
general improve
improve the
the efficiency
efficiency and
safety on
on the
the road
road are
are emerging
emerging in
in both
both the
the united
united states
states and
information exchange
exchange in
in such
such networks
networks occurs
occurs between
vehicles intervehicle
intervehicle communications
communications in
in an
an ad
ad hoc
hoc manner
manner and
also with
with roadside
roadside base
base stations
stations using
using socalled
socalled dedicated
dedicated short
range communication
communication links
research on
on technology
technology related
related to
vehicular networks
networks is
is being
being conducted
conducted by
by many
many universities
universities and
and is
being widely
widely reported
reported in
in the
the mainstream
mainstream media
media as
as well
networks are
are thus
thus expected
expected to
to become
become an
an important
important part
part of
community networks
networks of
of the
the future
in this
this paper
paper we
we will
will survey
the different
different types
types of
of dissemination
dissemination of
of information
information and
and the
assurance of
of such
such information
information in
in vehicular
vehicular networks
the paper
will discuss
discuss the
the architecture
architecture of
of vehicular
vehicular networks
networks classify
different types
types of
of information
information exchange
exchange safety
safety traffic
traffic related
and content
content and
and different
different methods
methods of
of information
information exchange
opportunistic exchange
exchange of
of resources
resources between
between vehicles
vehicles vehicle
assisted data
data delivery
delivery cooperative
cooperative downloading
downloading of
of information
then we
we discuss
discuss information
information assurance
assurance issues
issues in
in vehicular
networks and
and survey
survey the
the solutions
solutions proposed
proposed for
for ensuring
authenticityintegrity of
of information
information location
location privacy
privacy of
of vehicles
eviction of
of faulty
faulty or
or misbehaving
misbehaving vehicles
vehicles from
from the
the information
network e
using reputation
reputation etc
community technologies
technologies and
and networking
information assurance
assurance and
and security
vehicular networks
networks data
data aggregation
aggregation security
security authentication
copyright and
and disclaimer
disclaimer information
the copyright
copyright of
of this
this document
document remains
remains with
with the
the authors
authors andor
andor their
by submitting
submitting their
their papers
papers to
to the
the ischools
ischools conference
conference web
site the
the authors
authors hereby
hereby grant
grant a
a nonexclusive
nonexclusive license
license for
for the
the ischools
ischools to
to post
and disseminate
disseminate their
their papers
papers on
on its
its web
web site
site and
and any
any other
other electronic
electronic media
contact the
the authors
authors directly
directly for
for any
any use
use outside
outside of
of downloading
downloading and
referencing this
this paper
neither the
the ischools
ischools nor
nor any
any of
of its
its associated
universities endorse
endorse this
this work
the authors
authors are
are solely
solely responsible
responsible for
for their
papers content
our thanks
thanks to
to the
the association
association for
for computing
computing machinery
machinery for
permission to
to adapt
adapt and
and use
use their
their template
template for
for the
the ischools
ischools conference
over the
the last
last four
four years
years interest
interest in
in vehicular
vehicular networks
networks has
become resurgent
this is
is primarily
primarily due
due to
to the
the allocation
allocation of
mhz of
of licensed
licensed spectrum
spectrum by
by the
the federal
federal communications
commission in
in the
ghz range
range for
for socalled
dedicated short
short range
range communications
communications dsrc
dsrc for
for intelligent
transportation system
system applications
this spectrum
spectrum opened
opened up
up new
opportunities for
for realizing
realizing a
a variety
variety of
of communications
communications between
vehicles both
both vehicletovehicle
vehicletovehicle communications
communications vv
vv and
vehicle to
to roadside
roadside infrastructure
infrastructure vi
vi beyond
beyond what
what the
previously allocated
allocated unlicensed
unlicensed spectrum
spectrum in
in the
the mhz
mhz range
could offer
such vehicular
vehicular networks
networks aimed
aimed toward
toward providing
roadside services
services such
such as
as traffic
traffic alerts
alerts estimated
estimated time
time to
to reach
reach a
destination alternative
alternative routes
routes and
and in
in general
general improve
improve the
efficiency and
and safety
safety on
on the
the road
road are
are emerging
emerging in
in both
both the
the united
states and
and europe
the large
large bandwidth
bandwidth that
that is
is available
available also
makes it
it feasible
feasible to
to envisage
envisage other
other applications
applications such
such as
downloading and
and sharing
sharing content
content between
between vehicles
association of
of computing
computing machinery
machinery has
has organized
organized four
four annual
workshops on
on vehicular
vehicular ad
ad hoc
hoc networks
networks vanets
vanets since
a special
special issue
issue of
of the
the ieee
ieee journal
journal on
on selected
selected areas
areas in
communications has
has been
been dedicated
dedicated to
to this
this subject
subject area
area and
several other
other conferences
conferences and
and venues
venues have
have seen
seen increased
increased research
activity related
related to
to ad
ad hoc
hoc networks
not only
only is
is research
research on
technology related
related to
to vehicular
vehicular networks
networks being
being conducted
conducted by
many universities
universities but
but it
it is
is being
being widely
widely reported
reported in
in the
mainstream media
media as
as well
vehicular networks
networks are
are thus
expected to
to become
become an
an important
important part
part of
of community
community networks
networks of
the future
in this
this paper
paper we
we will
will survey
survey the
the different
different types
types of
of dissemination
dissemination of
information and
and the
the assurance
assurance of
of such
such information
information in
in vehicular
the paper
paper will
will discuss
discuss the
the architecture
architecture of
of vehicular
networks classify
classify different
different types
types of
of information
information exchange
exchange safety
traffic related
related and
and content
content and
and different
different methods
methods of
of information
exchange opportunistic
opportunistic exchange
exchange of
of resources
resources between
between vehicles
vehicle assisted
assisted data
data delivery
delivery cooperative
cooperative downloading
downloading of
information etc
then we
we discuss
discuss information
information assurance
assurance issues
in vehicular
vehicular networks
networks and
and survey
survey the
the solutions
solutions proposed
proposed for
ensuring authenticityintegrity
authenticityintegrity of
of information
information location
location privacy
privacy of
vehicles eviction
eviction of
of faulty
faulty or
or misbehaving
misbehaving vehicles
vehicles from
from the
information network
network etc
the paper
paper is
is organized
organized as
as follows
in section
section we
we provide
provide some
background on
on the
the architecture
architecture of
of vehicular
vehicular networks
networks the
different standards
standards bodies
bodies and
and consortiums
consortiums working
working on
on vehicular
networks and
and other
other related
related material
section considers
information dissemination
dissemination in
in vehicular
vehicular networks
networks the
the different
types of
of information
information that
that is
is expected
expected to
to be
be disseminated
disseminated the
propagation of
of such
such information
information in
in the
the network
network and
and methods
methods to
disseminate and
and acquire
acquire content
section looks
looks at
at information
assurance issues
issues in
in vehicular
vehicular networks
networks and
and surveys
surveys the
the issues
issues and
techniques that
that have
have been
been discussed
discussed in
in the
the research
research literature
finally section
section provides
provides some
some discussion
discussion of
of open
open topics
topics and
concludes the
the paper
roadside infrastructure
infrastructure may
may be
be connected
connected to
to the
the infrastructure
infrastructure for
extremely small
small durations
durations of
of time
time because
because of
of small
small coverage
coverage and
high vehicular
vehicular speeds
so the
the amount
amount of
of information
information that
that can
can be
pulled from
from the
the infrastructure
infrastructure is
is necessarily
necessarily limited
it is
is also
possible that
that vehicles
vehicles move
move into
into the
the range
range of
of the
the roadside
infrastructure with
with some
some information
information obtained
obtained from
from cooperating
vehicles they
they have
have encountered
the issue
issue then
then becomes
becomes one
one of
updating the
the information
information enhancing
enhancing the
the reliability
reliability or
or relevance
relevance of
information or
or obtaining
obtaining information
information that
that complements
complements that
already available
available to
to the
the vehicle
organizations and
and standards
in this
this section
section we
we present
present some
some background
background on
on the
the architecture
architecture of
vehicular networks
it is
is assumed
assumed in
in much
much of
of the
the literature
literature that
position information
information is
is locally
locally available
available to
to each
each vehicle
vehicle with
with an
error that
that is
is smaller
smaller than
than that
that needed
needed for
for safety
safety applications
a variety
variety of
of standards
standards organizations
organizations and
and consortiums
consortiums are
are actively
involved in
in developing
developing and
and promoting
promoting the
the technology
technology for
vehicular networks
network architecture
in vehicular
vehicular networks
networks it
it is
is expected
expected that
that there
there will
will be
be limited
access to
to an
an infrastructure
infrastructure network
network that
that will
will be
be supported
supported by
roadside base
base stations
such access
access is
is limited
limited in
in its
its nature
nature for
for two
first the
the deployment
deployment of
of the
the infrastructure
infrastructure is
is expected
expected to
be slow
slow and
and incremental
incremental leading
leading to
to wide
wide areas
areas where
where there
there is
is no
access to
to the
the infrastructure
second a
a complete
complete deployment
deployment is
expected to
to be
be sparse
sparse because
because of
of cost
the coverage
coverage provide
provide by
by a
roadside base
base station
station may
may be
be on
on the
the order
order of
of m
m while
roadside base
base stations
stations may
may be
be placed
placed every
every km
km or
or so
consequently not
not all
all vehicles
vehicles will
will be
be connected
connected to
to the
infrastructure at
at all
all times
to obtain
obtain access
access to
to safety
safety or
or other
other types
of information
information it
it becomes
becomes necessary
necessary to
to rely
rely on
on vehicletovehicle
the ieee
ieee is
is involved
involved in
in standards
standards related
related to
to the
the physical
physical medium
access and
and security
security issues
issues as
as well
well as
as in
in defining
defining higher
higher layer
services and
and interfaces
interfaces for
for intelligent
intelligent transportation
by the
the end
end of
the ieee
ieee p
p standards
standards for
for wireless
wireless access
access in
in vehicular
environments wave
wave had
had specified
specified the
the application
application layer
layer and
message formats
formats for
for operation
operation in
in the
ghz dsrc
the ieee
p standard
standard which
which is
is a
modification of
of the
the popular
popular ieee
wifi standard
standard looks
at issues
issues related
related to
to the
the highly
highly dynamic
dynamic environment
environment and
and the
extremely short
short time
time durations
durations where
where communications
communications must
must be
completed due
due to
to the
the high
high speed
speed of
of the
the communicating
communicating vehicles
several consortiums
consortiums with
with industry
industry andor
andor public
public participation
participation are
also working
working on
on furthering
furthering the
the development
development and
and deployment
deployment of
vehicular networks
some examples
examples are
are mentioned
mentioned here
the carcar
carcar consortium
consortium comprising
comprising of
of automobile
automobile manufacturers
some universities
universities and
and the
the fraunhofer
fraunhofer institute
institute has
has as
as one
one of
of its
primary objectives
objectives the
the creation
creation and
and establishment
establishment of
of an
an open
open and
interoperable standard
standard for
for vv
vv communications
communications in
in europe
europe using
wifi like
like components
some communication
communication protocols
protocols are
are being
developed by
by the
the networkonwheels
networkonwheels now
now group
group which
which is
associated with
with the
the carcar
carcar consortium
ford and
and general
motors created
created a
a crash
crash avoidance
avoidance metrics
metrics partnership
partnership camp
and with
with the
the national
national highway
highway transportation
transportation safety
administration this
this partnership
partnership is
is working
working on
on projects
projects such
such as
enhanced digital
digital maps
maps for
for safety
safety driver
driver workload
workload metrics
metrics and
forward crash
crash warning
warning requirements
information dissemination
figure schematic
schematic of
of a
a vehicular
vehicular network
network architecture
as shown
shown in
in figure
figure vehicles
vehicles a
a b
b and
and c
c have
have access
access to
to a
roadside infrastructure
infrastructure which
which has
has limited
limited coverage
vehicles can
can obtain
obtain information
information from
from the
the roadside
roadside base
base station
however vehicles
vehicles d
d e
e and
and f
f have
have no
no communications
communications with
with the
fixed infrastructure
for instance
instance vehicle
vehicle f
f will
will have
have to
to rely
rely upon
information from
from vehicle
vehicle e
e which
which in
in turn
turn has
has obtained
information that
that has
has passed
passed through
through vehicles
vehicles a
a and
and d
note that
that this
this scenario
scenario immediately
immediately creates
creates issues
issues that
that are
are not
necessarily important
important in
in other
other kinds
kinds of
of networks
networks in
in terms
terms of
of how
to disseminate
disseminate information
information and
and how
how to
to assure
assure the
the security
security of
note also
also that
that vehicles
vehicles that
that are
are in
in the
the range
range of
of a
information dissemination
dissemination using
using dsrc
dsrc is
is quite
quite attractive
attractive due
due to
the large
large bandwidth
bandwidth and
and the
the possibility
possibility of
of using
using multiple
multiple channels
the ieee
ieee standards
standards propose
propose employing
employing multiple
multiple mhz
channels each
each capable
capable of
of carrying
carrying mbps
mbps of
of data
data for
for vehicular
up to
to seven
seven channels
channels are
are available
available in
in the
ghz bands
bands and
and one
one channel
channel is
is supposed
supposed to
to be
be dedicated
dedicated for
for safety
the remaining
remaining channels
channels could
could potentially
potentially be
be used
for content
content distribution
distribution and
and delivery
in this
this section
section we
we describe
the different
different types
types of
of information
information that
that need
need to
to be
be disseminated
disseminated in
in a
vehicular network
network and
and the
the methodologies
methodologies that
that have
have been
considered in
in the
the research
research literature
types of
of information
it is
is expected
expected that
that the
the large
large bandwidth
bandwidth of
of dsrc
dsrc will
will enable
enable a
variety of
of yet
yet to
to be
be anticipated
anticipated applications
applications for
for vehicular
vehicular networks
such as
as internet
internet extension
extension office
office on
on wheels
wheels pp
pp file
file sharing
sharing etc
the different
different types
types of
of information
information that
that need
need to
to be
communicated and
and shared
shared in
in a
a vehicular
vehicular network
network can
can be
be classified
into four
four categories
categories a
a safety
safety information
information b
b traffic
traffic information
c infotainment
infotainment and
and other
other service
service information
information and
and d
d content
discussed previously
previously information
information may
may be
be obtained
obtained partly
partly from
from the
roadside infrastructure
infrastructure and
and partly
partly from
from other
other vehicles
vehicles that
that are
encountered by
by a
a given
given vehicle
in the
the case
case of
of many
many of
of the
the above
types of
of information
information the
the importance
importance and
and relevance
relevance of
of the
information changes
changes with
with space
space and
and time
for example
congestion information
information that
that is
is very
very far
far away
away may
may become
increasingly important
important and
and need
need a
a more
more recent
recent update
update as
as a
a vehicle
gets closer
closer to
to a
a congested
congested area
area along
along with
with updates
updates on
on alternative
paths that
that may
may themselves
themselves have
have increased
increased congestion
congestion by
by that
that point
of time
safety information
safety information
information is
is the
the most
most important
important of
of the
the information
information types
that are
are communicated
communicated in
in a
a vehicular
vehicular network
in alone
more than
than people
people were
were killed
killed in
in motor
motor vehicle
vehicle crashes
crashes in
the united
united states
in fact
fact the
the primary
primary purpose
purpose of
of dsrc
dsrc is
is to
greatly improve
improve the
the safety
safety of
of vehicular
vehicular traffic
for example
dsrc can
can be
be used
used to
to prevent
prevent collisions
collisions between
between vehicles
vehicles by
providing information
information to
to the
the driver
driver about
about whether
whether the
the vehicle
ahead is
is braking
braking if
if the
the speed
speed is
is too
too high
high or
or the
the distance
distance to
to other
vehicles or
or objects
objects is
is getting
getting too
too close
eight safety
safety applications
based on
on deliberations
deliberations between
between government
government agencies
agencies and
and private
industry have
have been
been identified
identified in
in which
which are
are traffic
traffic signal
violation warnings
warnings curve
curve speed
speed warnings
warnings emergency
emergency electronic
brake lights
lights precrash
precrash warnings
warnings cooperative
cooperative forward
forward collision
warnings leftturn
leftturn assistance
assistance lane
lane change
change warning
warning and
and stopsign
movement assistance
each of
of these
these applications
applications makes
makes use
use of
high level
level data
data elements
elements such
such as
as acceleration
acceleration in
in various
quantization levels
levels obstacle
obstacle direction
direction wheel
wheel angle
angle vehicle
vehicle width
see for
for more
more details
latency associated
associated with
with many
many of
these safety
safety messages
messages is
is crucial
the time
time taken
taken by
by the
the driver
driver of
of a
motor vehicle
vehicle to
to react
react to
to warnings
warnings has
has to
to be
be considered
considered while
delivering information
information to
to himher
himher introducing
introducing the
the human
component into
into the
the picture
the density
density and
and environment
environment in
in which
a vehicle
vehicle is
is operating
operating also
also influence
influence the
the delivery
delivery of
of safety
traffic information
this class
class of
of information
information primarily
primarily accounts
accounts for
for congestion
congestion on
current roads
roads suggestions
suggestions for
for alternative
alternative paths
paths to
to the
the destination
road construction
construction information
information etc
that are
are useful
useful for
for safety
safety and
efficiency but
but less
less timecritical
timecritical than
than the
the life
life safety
safety messages
discussed earlier
however traffic
traffic information
information may
may still
still have
have a
higher priority
priority than
than infotainment
infotainment or
or content
infotainment and
and services
dsrc can
can also
also be
be the
the mechanism
mechanism for
for obtaining
obtaining infotainment
infotainment and
location based
based services
services e
where is
is the
the nearest
nearest coffee
coffee shop
shop or
buying a
a ticket
ticket to
to a
a movie
movie en
en route
route to
to the
the theater
theater using
using digital
cash for
for paying
paying tolls
tolls and
and so
so on
this could
could also
also include
information such
such as
as available
available parking
parking spaces
spaces in
in the
the vicinity
recent research
research work
work in
in vehicular
vehicular networks
networks have
have focused
focused on
content distribution
distribution and
what differentiates
content from
from infotainment
infotainment and
and services
services is
is the
the quantity
quantity o
in most
most of
of the
the research
research literature
literature cited
cited above
above the
assumption is
is that
that vehicles
vehicles will
will be
be interested
interested in
in obtaining
extremely large
large files
files e
video on
on demand
demand that
that cannot
cannot be
obtained through
through a
a few
few limited
limited transactions
transactions with
with either
either the
roadside infrastructure
infrastructure or
or a
a couple
couple of
of nearby
nearby vehicles
efficient discovery
discovery and
and distribution
distribution of
of large
large quantities
quantities of
information is
is a
a challenging
challenging problem
problem especially
especially in
in a
a dynamic
information dissemination
dissemination methods
dissemination of
of the
the various
various types
types of
of information
information poses
poses numerous
challenges in
in vehicular
vehicular networks
networks because
because of
of many
many reasons
size of
of the
the network
network the
the speed
speed of
of vehicles
vehicles the
the patchy
patchy and
intermittent connectivity
connectivity with
with both
both the
the roadside
roadside base
base stations
where they
they exist
exist and
and between
between vehicles
vehicles as
as they
they move
move the
significance and
and germaneness
germaneness of
of the
the information
information that
that changes
with vehicular
vehicular position
position and
and time
time are
are only
only a
a few
few of
of these
these reasons
safety information
information has
has critical
critical latency
latency requirements
needs to
to be
be efficiently
efficiently discovered
discovered and
and shared
in what
what follows
follows we
look at
at the
the attempts
attempts in
in the
the research
research literature
literature to
to address
address several
open problems
problems that
that remain
remain with
with respect
respect to
to information
dissemination in
in vehicular
vehicular networks
in order
order to
to evaluate
evaluate the
the methods
methods for
for disseminating
disseminating information
models that
that capture
capture the
the idiosyncrasies
idiosyncrasies of
of vehicular
vehicular networks
networks are
however such
such models
models are
are not
not widely
widely available
a large
large scale
scale simulator
simulator of
of vehicular
vehicular networks
networks has
has been
been developed
and utilized
utilized for
for freeway
freeway scenarios
simulation models
models for
for urban
settings that
that include
include street
street layout
layout traffic
traffic rules
rules like
like stop
stop signs
multilane roads
roads the
the slowing
slowing down
down and
and speeding
speeding up
up of
of vehicles
and attenuation
attenuation of
of communication
communication signals
signals with
with distance
distance are
captured in
the importance
importance of
of such
such models
models cannot
cannot be
efficient and
and reliable
reliable dissemination
dissemination of
of information
will be
be impacted
impacted by
by how
how vehicles
vehicles are
are clustered
clustered when
when they
they form
and leave
leave groups
groups how
how far
far apart
apart they
they are
are under
under different
different traffic
conditions the
the density
density of
of vehicles
vehicles etc
realistic vehicular
vehicular traces
were used
used with
with simulations
simulations in
in and
and the
the authors
authors demonstrated
that such
such real
real traces
traces show
show noticeable
noticeable differences
differences compared
compared to
widely used
used mobility
mobility models
for instance
instance vehicles
vehicles merge
merge into
groups ahead
ahead of
of them
them when
when they
they are
are faster
faster and
and break
break away
away or
split from
from groups
groups if
if they
they are
are slower
for example
example if
if al
al vehicles
are moving
moving to
to the
the right
right in
in figure
figure vehicle
vehicle f
f could
could eventually
split from
from vehicles
vehicles d
d and
and e
e if
if it
it moves
moves faster
handling such
mergers and
and splits
splits can
can impact
impact packet
packet delivery
delivery and
and thus
information dissemination
in the
the spatial
spatial propagation
propagation of
information is
is analytically
analytically investigated
investigated and
and shown
shown to
to depend
depend on
vehicle density
density speed
speed etc
methods of
of delivering
delivering information
information vary
vary in
in the
the research
research literature
information may
may be
be opportunistically
opportunistically pulled
pulled from
from other
other vehicles
or the
the infrastructure
infrastructure as
as a
a target
target vehicle
vehicle encounters
encounters them
in an
different scenario
scenario a
a vehicle
vehicle carries
carries information
information with
with it
it and
delivers it
it either
either to
to the
the infrastructure
infrastructure or
or to
to other
other vehicles
vehicles when
when it
encounters them
them using
using mobility
mobility in
in addition
addition to
to wireless
transmissions to
to disseminate
disseminate information
this process
process is
called vehicleassisted
vehicleassisted delivery
for content
content delivery
delivery vehicles
vehicles can
download partial
partial units
units of
of some
some content
content and
and share
share them
them afterwards
to obtain
obtain the
the complete
complete content
this has
has been
been called
called cooperative
in the
the case
case of
of safety
safety information
information and
and certain
certain types
types of
of traffic
traffic and
service information
information e
availability of
of parking
parking space
space the
temporal and
and spatial
spatial delivery
delivery of
of information
information have
have to
to be
be carefully
for instance
instance it
it becomes
becomes necessary
necessary to
to evaluate
evaluate how
how far
the information
information should
should be
be disseminated
disseminated and
and this
this depends
depends on
the traffic
traffic conditions
conditions e
information need
need be
be propagated
propagated over
shorter distances
distances in
in the
the case
case of
of a
a traffic
traffic jam
in simulations
simulations of
forward collision
collision warning
warning in
in a
a freeway
freeway scenario
scenario were
were conducted
under the
the assumption
assumption that
that every
every vehicle
vehicle periodically
periodically reports
reports its
information the
the density
density of
of vehicles
vehicles and
and their
their distance
distance from
from the
target vehicle
vehicle determined
determined the
the success
success of
of delivery
delivery of
of packets
packets at
at the
target vehicle
one suggestion
suggestion by
by the
the authors
authors there
there is
is to
to thus
reduce the
the transmission
transmission range
range of
of vehicles
vehicles to
to improve
improve packet
success probability
in the
the case
case of
of traffic
traffic and
and service
service information
information aging
aging of
of the
information with
with time
time and
and distance
distance is
is suggested
suggested in
information is
is opportunistically
opportunistically pulled
pulled from
from neighboring
neighboring vehicles
as a
a target
target vehicle
vehicle moves
moves in
in a
a given
given area
such information
information needs
to have
have a
a time
time stamp
stamp and
and a
a location
location stamp
as the
the vehicle
vehicle moves
farther away
away from
from where
where the
the information
information is
is relevant
relevant or
or as
as time
elapses the
the information
information is
is aged
aged and
and eventually
eventually purged
enables vehicles
vehicles to
to maintain
maintain uptodate
uptodate information
information without
taxing memory
memory and
and other
other resources
the propagation
propagation and
and survival
of information
information is
is discussed
discussed in
in and
and both
both in
in time
time and
because of
of the
the spatiotemporal
spatiotemporal relevance
relevance of
of information
information a
piece of
of information
information tended
tended not
not to
to propagate
propagate beyond
beyond a
a specific
in time
time a
a given
given piece
piece of
of information
information would
would propagate
very quickly
quickly till
till it
it reaches
reaches a
a maximum
maximum number
number of
of copies
copies and
and then
it would
would also
also rapidly
rapidly decline
decline from
from that
that point
recent papers
papers have
have addressed
addressed content
content distribution
distribution in
in vehicular
the primary
primary idea
idea here
here is
is that
that vehicles
vehicles download
download pieces
of files
files when
when they
they have
have access
access to
to the
the roadside
roadside and
and then
then share
share such
pieces with
with one
one another
eventually they
they all
all have
have the
the required
required file
the sporadic
sporadic nature
nature of
of connectivity
connectivity makes
makes this
this problem
problem difficult
in and
and content
content is
is partially
partially downloaded
downloaded from
from a
a roadside
base station
station which
which also
also provides
provides a
a list
list of
of other
other vehicles
vehicles that
that have
parts of
of the
the file
each vehicle
vehicle then
then gossips
gossips about
about what
what part
part of
the content
content it
it has
preference is
is given
given to
to local
local neighbors
neighbors to
download remaining
remaining parts
parts of
of the
the file
a closestrarest
closestrarest strategy
strategy is
adopted where
where the
the rarest
rarest piece
piece of
of the
the file
file is
is downloaded
downloaded first
approach resembles
resembles bittorrent
bittorrent but
but is
is decentralized
decentralized and
employs proximity
proximity information
information to
to improve
improve performance
this is
because multihop
multihop communications
communications degrade
degrade the
the performance
performance of
information delivery
delivery rapidly
rapidly as
as the
the number
number of
of hops
hops increase
network coding
coding and
and mobility
mobility assistance
assistance as
as in
in along
with gossiping
gossiping as
as in
in is
is employed
employed with
with only
only single
single hop
distribution of
of content
content to
to further
further improve
improve performance
a single
hop content
content distribution
distribution is
is also
also proposed
proposed in
replicas of
of pieces
pieces of
of files
files at
at the
the intersections
intersections of
of roads
roads so
so as
as to
reach a
a large
large number
number of
of vehicles
vehicles is
is suggested
suggested in
data aggregation
as previously
previously mentioned
mentioned flooding
flooding the
the network
network with
with information
reduces the
the performance
performance in
in terms
terms of
of latency
latency packet
packet loss
loss and
also the
the relevance
relevance of
of information
information decreases
decreases with
space and
and time
recently data
data aggregation
aggregation schemes
schemes have
have been
proposed to
to reduce
reduce the
the load
load on
on the
the network
network yet
yet make
make useful
information available
available to
to vehicles
vehicles that
that may
may be
be far
far away
vehicles first
first produce
produce a
a primary
primary data
data record
record that
that is
is made
made up
up of
of the
vehicles location
location speed
speed time
time stamp
stamp etc
clusters of
of vehicles
create a
a local
local view
view and
and local
local views
views are
are periodically
periodically aggregated
into cluster
cluster records
aggregate information
information is
is disseminated
disseminated in
in the
in the
the difficulty
difficulty of
of comparing
comparing aggregate
information in
in vehicular
vehicular networks
networks is
is discussed
the problem
problem here
is how
how a
a vehicle
vehicle should
should decide
decide which
which aggregate
aggregate is
is better
better to
to use
since different
different aggregates
aggregates may
may have
have included
included different
different individual
changed observations
this problem
problem is
is addressed
addressed by
by using
using an
approximate representation
representation of
of data
data in
in the
the form
form of
of a
a modified
flajoletmartin sketch
sketch that
that enables
enables aggregation
aggregation of
of two
two aggregated
data sets
sets thereby
thereby eliminating
eliminating the
the problem
problem of
of comparison
information assurance
assuring information
information in
in vehicular
vehicular networks
networks has
has unique
unique challenges
due to
to some
some of
of the
the same
same reasons
reasons as
as information
information dissemination
namely the
the size
size of
of the
the network
network the
the speed
speed the
the dynamic
dynamic topology
the intermittent
intermittent connectivity
connectivity lack
lack of
of trust
trust between
between vehicles
vehicles etc
the differing
differing requirements
requirements of
of the
the different
different types
types of
of information
information in
vehicular networks
networks further
further complicate
complicate information
information assurance
assurance e
latency is
is an
an important
important issue
issue for
for lifesafety
lifesafety information
information while
while it
is not
not crucial
crucial for
for content
content delivery
only recently
recently has
has some
attention been
been placed
placed on
on the
the security
security of
of vehicular
vehicular networks
discussion of
of the
the vulnerabilities
vulnerabilities and
and challenges
challenges for
for securing
vehicular communications
communications is
is presented
presented in
considering the
the usual
usual information
information assurance
assurance services
services i
confidentialityprivacy authentication
authentication integrity
integrity availability
availability and
nonrepudiation it
it is
is easy
easy to
to see
see how
how vehicular
vehicular networks
networks are
since the
the location
location information
information of
of vehicles
vehicles is
disseminated there
there is
is a
a serious
serious question
question of
of location
location privacy
authenticating messages
messages and
and ensuring
ensuring their
their integrity
integrity become
become very
important to
to make
make certain
certain that
that fabricated
fabricated messages
messages do
do not
not cause
dangers to
to safety
safety in
in the
the worst
worst case
case or
or cause
cause traffic
traffic jams
jams in
in the
the best
a vehicle
vehicle must
must not
not deny
deny being
being the
the cause
cause of
of an
an accident
accident if
if it
indeed was
was responsible
responsible for
for it
it nor
nor should
should the
the blame
blame be
be placed
placed on
another vehicle
simple techniques
techniques like
like jamming
jamming of
of signals
signals can
severely impact
impact the
the safety
safety of
of the
the vehicular
vehicular network
network by
by affecting
the availability
availability of
of information
distribution of
of content
content in
in vehicular
networks raises
raises its
its information
information assurance
assurance challenges
challenges that
that have
hardly been
been considered
considered in
in the
the research
research literature
in a
a security
security architecture
architecture is
is presented
presented that
that provides
information assurance
assurance using
using tamperproof
tamperproof security
security hardware
hardware and
and a
vehicular publickey
publickey infrastructure
infrastructure to
to provide
provide information
privacy is
is enabled
enabled using
using anonymous
anonymous keys
keys preloaded
into the
the tamperproof
tamperproof hardware
hardware but
but which
which can
can be
be tracked
tracked back
back to
an electronic
electronic license
license plate
plate if
if law
law enforcement
enforcement needs
needs it
in the
use of
of multiple
multiple credentials
credentials to
to decouple
decouple the
the identity
identity of
of the
the vehicle
from its
its keys
keys to
to potential
potential eavesdroppers
eavesdroppers is
is proposed
this scheme
thus maintains
maintains privacy
privacy of
of the
the vehicle
public key
key algorithms
algorithms and
protocols are
are however
however bandwidth
bandwidth intensive
intensive making
making use
use of
certificates and
and may
may adversely
adversely affect
affect latency
latency requirements
requirements of
safety information
symmetric encryption
encryption creates
creates its
its own
own set
set of
problems because
because of
of the
the necessity
necessity of
of a
a trusted
trusted roadside
infrastructure to
to distribute
distribute and
and manage
manage keys
to solve
solve this
problem an
an identity
identity based
based security
security framework
framework for
for vehicular
networks is
is proposed
proposed in
this makes
makes use
use of
of weiltate
pairings where
where arbitrary
arbitrary strings
strings can
can act
act as
as public
public keys
keys that
that can
maintain privacy
privacy while
while reducing
reducing the
the number
number of
of communicated
despite all
all precautions
precautions it
it is
is possible
possible that
that malicious
malicious nodes
nodes will
send fabricated
fabricated information
information to
to disrupt
disrupt the
the operation
operation of
of vehicular
in data
data validation
validation is
is used
used to
to detect
detect such
such fabricated
information under
under the
the assumption
assumption that
that honest
honest vehicles
vehicles are
are more
prevalent than
than malicious
malicious ones
sybil attacks
attacks where
where a
a malicious
node can
can claim
claim to
to have
have several
several identities
identities each
each bolstering
bolstering its
fabricated claim
claim are
are thwarted
thwarted by
by distinguishing
distinguishing vehicles
vehicles two
vehicles cannot
cannot occupy
occupy the
the same
same position
position at
at the
the same
same time
position information
information is
is similarly
similarly exploited
exploited to
to prevent
prevent sybil
sybil attacks
also discusses
discusses approaches
approaches to
to prevent
prevent vehicles
vehicles from
fabricating their
their position
position information
data aggregation
aggregation is
is quite
quite important
important for
for maintaining
maintaining the
performance of
of vehicular
vehicular networks
networks and
and ensuring
ensuring information
references and
and consider
consider secure
secure data
aggregation for
for vehicular
vehicular networks
finally detection
detection isolation
isolation and
and eviction
eviction of
of malicious
malicious or
or faulty
vehicles from
from a
a vehicular
vehicular network
network is
is discussed
discussed in
discussion and
and conclusions
vehicular networks
networks as
as they
they are
are conceptualized
conceptualized today
today are
are already
quite complex
however the
the applications
applications and
and usage
usage scenarios
scenarios are
unpredictable till
till such
such networks
networks are
are actually
actually deployed
deployed and
and widely
for example
example the
the burgeoning
burgeoning of
of community
community wifi
networks was
was never
never anticipated
anticipated in
in the
the early
early days
days of
of its
its inception
it is
is quite
quite possible
possible that
that user
user communities
communities of
of vehicular
vehicular networks
may arise
arise as
as against
against autonomous
autonomous vehicular
vehicular communities
communities or
clusters and
and people
people will
will choose
choose to
to use
use such
such networks
networks in
in ways
ways that
are unique
unique and
and challenging
challenging in
in terms
terms of
of information
information dissemination
and assurance
already content
content distribution
distribution could
could be
be a
a problem
there are
are no
no good
good mechanisms
mechanisms for
for ensuring
ensuring rights
rights management
management in
an environment
environment with
with good
good connectivity
connectivity let
let alone
alone in
in one
one with
limited or
or intermittent
intermittent connectivity
the evolution
evolution of
of vehicular
networks will
will also
also depend
depend on
on how
how open
open they
they are
the safety
requirements will
will make
make it
it necessary
necessary to
to close
close at
at least
least some
some parts
parts of
the network
network to
to ensure
ensure limited
limited or
or no
no disruption
disruption to
to vehicular
vehicular safety
in this
this paper
paper a
a survey
survey of
of recent
recent research
research in
in the
the areas
areas of
information dissemination
dissemination and
and assurance
assurance in
in vehicular
vehicular networks
was presented
the paper
paper discussed
discussed the
the architecture
architecture of
of vehicular
networks classified
classified different
different types
types of
of information
information exchange
safety traffic
traffic related
related and
and content
content and
and different
different methods
methods of
information exchange
then we
we discussed
discussed information
information assurance
issues in
in vehicular
vehicular networks
networks and
and surveyed
surveyed the
the solutions
solutions proposed
for ensuring
ensuring authenticityintegrity
authenticityintegrity of
of information
information location
location privacy
of vehicles
vehicles eviction
eviction of
of faulty
faulty or
or misbehaving
misbehaving vehicles
vehicles from
from the
information network
see httpwww
govservices for
for a
a list
list of
of wireless
wireless services
and dsrc
dsrc is
is listed
listed therein
the link
link to
to dsrc
dsrc provides
additional information
ieee journal
journal on
on selected
selected areas
areas in
in communications
communications special
issue on
on vehicular
vehicular networks
networks october
roy furchgott
furchgott navigating
navigating with
with feedback
feedback from
from fellow
drivers new
new york
york times
times october
the ieee
task group
group p
p to
to define
define enhancements
enhancements to
required to
to support
support intelligent
intelligent transportation
systems available
available at
at httpgrouper
carcar communication
communication consortium
consortium at
at httpwww
networkonwheels at
at httpwww
elbatt et
et al
cooperative collision
collision warning
warning using
dedicated short
short range
range wireless
wireless communications
communications proc
acm workshop
workshop on
on vehicular
vehicular ad
ad hoc
hoc networks
networks vanet
xu t
mak and
and r
sengupta vehicletovehicle
vehicletovehicle safety
messaging in
in dsrc
dsrc proc
acm workshop
workshop on
on vehicular
ad hoc
hoc networks
networks vanet
vanet october
traffic safety
safety facts
facts overview
overview data
data available
available at
at the
national highway
highway transportation
transportation safety
safety aministrations
website at
at httpwww
robinson et
et al
al efficient
efficient coordination
coordination and
transmission of
of data
data for
for cooperative
cooperative vehicular
vehicular safety
applications proc
acm workshop
workshop on
on vehicular
vehicular ad
ad hoc
networks vanet
vanet september
lee et
et al
codetorrent content
content distribution
distribution using
network coding
coding in
in vanet
vanet proc
acm mobishare
mobishare los
angeles september
nandan et
et al
cooperative downloading
downloading in
in vehicular
adhoc wireless
wireless networks
networks second
second ieee
ieee conference
conference on
wireless ondemand
ondemand network
network systems
systems and
and services
services january
xu a
ouksel o
wolfson opportunistic
opportunistic resource
exchange in
in intervehicle
intervehicle adhoc
adhoc networks
networks proc
ieee int
on mobile
mobile data
data management
management pp
das et
et al
spawn a
a swarming
swarming protocol
protocol for
for vehicular
ad hoc
hoc wireless
wireless networks
networks proc
acm workshop
workshop on
vehicular ad
ad hoc
hoc networks
networks vanet
vanet october
fiore c
casetti cf
cf chiasserini
chiasserini ondemand
ondemand content
delivery in
in vehicular
vehicular wireless
wireless networks
networks proc
wu et
et al
analytical models
models for
for information
information propagation
in vehicletovehicle
vehicletovehicle network
network proc
ieee vehicular
technology conference
zhao and
and g
cao vadd
vadd vehicleassisted
vehicleassisted data
delivery in
in vehicular
vehicular ad
ad hoc
hoc networks
networks proc
raya p
papadimitratos jp
hubaux securing
communications october
crash avoidance
avoidance metrics
metrics partnership
partnership at
at httpwww
mahjan n
potnis k
gopalan and
and a
wang modeling
vanet deployment
deployment in
in urban
urban settings
settings proc
mswim october
naumov r
baumann t
gross an
an evaluation
evaluation of
of intervehicle
intervehicle ad
ad hoc
hoc networks
networks based
based on
on realistic
realistic vehicular
traces proc
acm mobihoc
mobihoc may
yamanaka g
tsuchida s
ishihara a
a replica
distribution scheme
scheme for
for location
location dependent
dependent information
information in
vehicular ad
ad hoc
hoc networks
networks proc
acm workshop
workshop on
vehicular ad
ad hoc
hoc networks
networks vanet
vanet october
ibrahim and
and m
weigle accurate
accurate data
data aggregation
for vanets
vanets poster
poster in
in proc
acm workshop
workshop on
on vehicular
ad hoc
hoc networks
networks vanet
vanet september
lochert b
scheurmann m
mauve probabilistic
aggregation for
for data
data dissemination
dissemination in
in vanets
vanets proc
acm workshop
workshop on
on vehicular
vehicular ad
ad hoc
hoc networks
networks vanet
kamat a
baliga and
and w
trappe an
an identity
identity based
security framework
framework for
for vanets
vanets proc
acm workshop
on vehicular
vehicular ad
ad hoc
hoc networks
networks vanet
vanet september
caladriello p
papadimitratos jp
jp hubaux
hubaux efficient
efficient and
robust pseudonymous
pseudonymous authentication
authentication in
in vanet
vanet proc
acm workshop
workshop on
on vehicular
vehicular ad
ad hoc
hoc networks
networks vanet
golle d
greene and
and j
staddon detecting
detecting and
correcting malicious
malicious data
data in
in vanets
vanets proc
workshop on
on vehicular
vehicular ad
ad hoc
hoc networks
networks vanet
vanet october
yan g
choudhary m
weigle s
olariu providing
vanet security
security through
through active
active position
position detection
detection proc
acm workshop
workshop on
on vehicular
vehicular ad
ad hoc
hoc networks
networks vanet
leinmuller et
et al
al improved
improved security
security in
in geographic
geographic ad
hoc routing
routing through
through autonomous
autonomous position
position verification
acm workshop
workshop on
on vehicular
vehicular ad
ad hoc
hoc networks
vanet september
picconi et
et al
al probabilistic
probabilistic validation
validation of
of aggregated
aggregated data
in vehicular
vehicular ad
ad hoc
hoc networks
networks proc
acm workshop
workshop on
vehicular ad
ad hoc
hoc networks
networks vanet
vanet september
raya a
aziz and
and jp
jp hubaux
hubaux efficient
efficient secure
aggregation in
in vanets
vanets proc
acm workshop
workshop on
vehicular ad
ad hoc
hoc networks
networks vanet
vanet september
raya et
et al
eviction of
of misbehaving
misbehaving and
and faulty
faulty nodes
in vehicular
vehicular networks
networks ieee
ieee jornal
jornal on
on selected
selected areas
areas in
communications vol
