technical authorship
authorship refiguring
refiguring the
the designeruser
designeruser conflict
conflict and
and the
visioning of
of collective
collective technical
technical futures
marisa leavitt
leavitt cohn
department of
of informatics
university of
of california
california irvine
irvine ca
susan elliott
elliott sim
department of
of informatics
university of
of california
california irvine
irvine ca
kavita philip
department of
of womens
womens studies
university of
of california
california irvine
irvine ca
this paper
paper argues
argues for
for the
the application
application of
of authorship
authorship analysis
analysis to
technology design
it extends
extends techniques
techniques used
used in
in science
science studies
studies to
investigate scientific
scientific authorship
authorship in
in order
order to
to define
define a
a concept
concept of
technical authorship
to illustrate
illustrate the
the potential
potential of
of this
this approach
authorship analysis
analysis is
is applied
applied to
to particular
particular prescriptive
prescriptive software
design methodologies
methodologies including
including participatory
participatory design
design and
and agile
agile software
the results
results of
of this
this analysis
analysis are
are the
the recognition
recognition that
that a
design methodologies
methodologies are
are rhetorics
rhetorics of
of authorship
authorship b
b the
the designeruser
relationship can
can be
be seen
seen as
as a
a conflict
conflict of
of contested
contested authorship
authorship and
and c
this conflict
conflict can
can be
be seen
seen within
within the
the tensions
tensions in
in the
the figuration
figuration of
of the
user and
and the
the designer
designer along
along a
a subjectobject
subjectobject continuum
figuration a
a technique
technique used
used by
by donna
donna haraway
haraway brings
brings about
about a
a new
understanding of
of the
the centrality
centrality of
of the
the user
user in
in the
the design
design process
process as
well as
as the
the role
role of
of the
the designer
designer as
as the
the contested
contested author
author technical
the implications
implications suggest
suggest that
that design
design researchers
researchers might
might use
authorship as
as a
a new
new approach
approach to
to the
the politics
politics of
of design
design by
by refiguring
the designer
designer and
and user
user rather
rather than
than collapsing
collapsing the
the distinction
distinction between
these roles
information organization
information technology
technology and
and services
authorship science
science studies
studies design
design methodologies
methodologies figuration
figuration politics
of design
introducing authorship
authorship is
is a
a central
central subject
subject of
of study
study in
in cultural
cultural and
and literary
studies and
and has
has received
received special
special attention
attention in
in science
science studies
foucault first
first drew
drew attention
attention to
to the
the social
social construction
construction of
of the
the concept
of authorship
authorship its
its historical
historical origins
origins and
and the
the functions
functions that
that it
it serves
in his
his essay
essay what
what is
is an
an author
he points
points to
to the
the fact
that there
there is
is both
both an
an empirical
empirical individual
individual author
author and
and an
authorfunction that
that requires
requires the
the construction
construction of
of a
a figure
figure of
of an
author who
who is
is outside
outside and
and precedes
precedes the
the authored
authored text
authorfunction and
and its
its figure
figure arose
arose as
as a
a new
new form
form during
during the
the th
century conditioned
conditioned by
by a
a growing
growing culture
culture of
of private
private property
property author
citing foucault
copyright and
and disclaimer
disclaimer information
the copyright
copyright of
of this
this document
document remains
remains with
with the
the authors
authors andor
andor their
by submitting
submitting their
their papers
papers to
to the
the ischools
ischools conference
web site
site the
the authors
authors hereby
hereby grant
grant a
a nonexclusive
nonexclusive license
license for
for the
ischools to
to post
post and
and disseminate
disseminate their
their papers
papers on
on its
its web
web site
site and
and any
other electronic
electronic media
contact the
the authors
authors directly
directly for
for any
any use
use outside
of downloading
downloading and
and referencing
referencing this
this paper
neither the
the ischools
ischools nor
nor any
of its
its associated
associated universities
universities endorse
endorse this
this work
the authors
authors are
are solely
responsible for
for their
their papers
papers content
our thanks
thanks to
to the
the association
for computing
computing machinery
machinery for
for permission
permission to
to adapt
adapt and
and use
use their
their template
for the
the ischools
ischools conference
donna haraway
haraway and
and others
others in
in science
science studies
studies have
have developed
developed this
this approach
further to
to analyze
analyze the
the scientific
scientific author
author its
its origins
origins and
and implications
the scientific
scientific author
author is
is the
the authoritative
authoritative voice
voice of
objective reasoning
reasoning that
that produces
produces facts
facts out
out of
of the
the experimental
practices of
of the
the sciences
latour shapin
shapin haraway
haraway and
others have
have helped
helped to
to explain
explain the
the origins
origins of
of how
how this
this particular
authorial voice
voice came
came to
to be
be as
as well
well as
as it
it how
how it
it continues
continues to
to be
be taken
for granted
latour especially
especially focuses
focuses on
on how
how the
the everyday
practices of
of the
the laboratory
laboratory aid
aid in
in the
the social
social construction
construction of
of facts
thus unveiling
unveiling the
the scientific
scientific author
author empirical
empirical individual
individual of
of his
his garb
of scientific
scientific objectivity
haraways focus
focus shifts
shifts away
away from
from unmasking
unmasking the
the scientist
scientist and
and towards
towards the
emergent authorfigure
authorfigure who
who she
she calls
calls the
the modest
modest witness
witness borrowing
borrowing the
term from
from shapin
shapin and
and schaffer
schaffer leviathan
leviathan and
and the
the airpump
modest witness
witness is
is the
the witness
witness whose
whose accounts
accounts mirror
mirror reality
reality through
this modest
modest voice
voice is
is that
that which
which pays
pays off
off its
practitioners in
in the
the coin
coin of
of epistemological
epistemological and
and social
social power
it is
the virtue
virtue that
that guarantees
guarantees that
that the
the scientist
scientist is
is the
the legitimate
legitimate and
authorized ventriloquist
ventriloquist for
for the
the object
object world
world adding
adding nothing
nothing from
from his
mere opinions
this scientific
scientific authorial
authorial voice
voice which
which extends
extends to
to much
much of
of academic
writing in
in the
the social
social sciences
sciences and
and technical
technical fields
fields as
as well
well is
is one
one that
puts the
the objects
objects of
of study
study in
in supposedly
supposedly plain
plain view
view while
while the
the author
author as
as a
subject disappears
disappears from
from the
the text
the modest
modest witness
witness is
is used
used by
by the
scientific author
author the
the empirical
empirical individual
individual to
to offset
offset his
his role
role as
as a
authorship in
in the
the sciences
sciences appears
appears subjectless
it is
is a
a world
of objects
objects that
that speak
speak for
for themselves
this lack
lack of
of a
a subject
subject we
we now
now take
for granted
granted as
as that
that which
which lends
lends authority
authority to
to the
the scientific
scientific text
text but
this authority
authority had
had to
to be
be shaped
shaped through
through the
the creation
creation of
of the
the figure
figure of
the modest
modest witness
witness who
who steps
steps aside
aside and
and out
out of
of view
in this
this paper
paper we
we will
will extend
extend analysis
analysis of
of authorship
authorship to
to the
the field
field of
technology design
design relying
relying primarily
primarily on
on the
the techniques
techniques used
used by
by donna
haraway in
in her
her book
one of
haraways techniques
techniques is
is figuration
figuration which
which she
she uses
uses to
to draw
draw up
up this
character of
of the
the modest
modest witness
haraways concept
concept of
of the
the figure
figure is
one who
who collects
collects up
up the
the people
people a
a figure
figure embodies
embodies shared
shared meanings
meanings in
stories that
that inhabit
inhabit their
their audiences
figuration is
is difficult
difficult to
explain but
but we
we are
are familiar
familiar with
with figures
figures in
in particular
particular the
the idea
idea of
of the
christfigure where
where certain
certain emblematic
emblematic features
features of
of a
a character
character come
together through
through the
the many
many metaphoric
metaphoric uses
uses of
of it
it in
in different
different contexts
contexts or
the figure
figure in
in technology
technology design
design that
that readily
readily emerges
emerges through
through authorship
analysis is
is that
that of
of the
the user
the user
user is
is central
central to
to technology
computational systems
systems and
and product
product design
in sociological
sociological studies
studies of
technology design
design however
however the
the word
word has
has been
been taken
taken up
up as
as highly
it is
is flagged
flagged in
in various
various debates
debates within
within technology
design as
as in
in the
the words
words userfriendly
userfriendly usercentered
usercentered and
and user
experience aka
aka ux
it is
is critiqued
critiqued ironically
ironically for
for its
its lack
lack of
utility since
since it
it provides
provides no
no context
context characteristics
characteristics or
or sense
sense of
in fact
fact ux
ux responds
responds to
to the
the last
last challenge
challenge by
by establishing
experience as
as the
the users
users area
area of
of expertise
user limits
limits agency
agency on
the receiving
receiving end
end of
of technology
technology to
to a
a single
single action
action use
use and
and so
so has
has been
reconceived as
as actor
actor knowledgemaker
knowledgemaker or
or participant
user can
provide only
only a
a generic
generic sense
sense of
of what
what is
is userfriendly
userfriendly or
or usable
design researchers
researchers response
response to
to that
that might
might be
be to
to use
use methods
methods of
contextual inquiry
inquiry or
or situated
situated actions
grudin has
has pointed
pointed out
that the
the word
word enduser
enduser is
is a
a retronym
retronym that
that tells
tells us
us more
more about
about the
history of
of the
the manmachine
manmachine relationship
relationship than
than about
about the
the real
real empirical
yet there
there is
is an
an apparent
apparent difficulty
difficulty in
in dispensing
dispensing with
with the
the word
authorship is
is a
a lens
lens that
that can
can help
help to
to explain
explain this
this persistence
of the
the userfigure
userfigure as
as problematic
problematic rather
rather than
than trying
trying to
to explain
explain the
particular problems
problems it
it causes
haraways techniques
techniques for
for authorship
analysis using
using figuration
figuration suggest
suggest that
that what
what is
is most
most interesting
interesting about
the user
user is
is the
the way
way it
it is
is figured
figured through
through technology
technology design
the other
other figure
figure that
that emerges
emerges from
from authorship
authorship analysis
analysis of
of technology
design is
is that
that of
of the
the designer
it is
is not
not strange
strange that
that we
we as
as designers
and design
design researchers
researchers understand
understand this
this figure
figure far
far less
less than
than we
we do
do the
unlike the
the modest
modest witness
witness the
the designerfigure
designerfigure is
is still
very much
much in
in flux
flux much
much as
as the
the scientific
scientific authorfigure
authorfigure was
was in
in the
the th
the many
many competing
competing design
design methodologies
methodologies point
point to
to an
an unclear
authorfigure and
and even
even an
an ambivalence
ambivalence towards
towards the
the designer
designer as
as author
in fact
fact authorship
authorship analysis
analysis suggests
suggests that
that the
the politics
politics of
of technology
design exist
exist in
in a
a conflict
conflict between
between the
the designer
designer and
and the
the user
user that
that is
is one
of contested
contested authorship
most often
often is
is the
the designers
designers themselves
themselves that
contest their
their own
own role
role as
as author
author and
and initiate
initiate methods
methods to
to involve
involve the
users as
as authors
authors in
in the
the design
design process
but there
there are
are also
also cases
cases where
software developers
developers or
or engineers
engineers with
with to
to empower
empower themselves
themselves as
as authors
of the
the code
code in
in cases
cases where
where they
they feel
feel they
they have
have become
become instrumentalized
by a
a design
design methodology
there are
are a
a number
number of
of motivations
motivations for
for applying
applying authorship
authorship analysis
analysis to
technology design
first there
there are
are many
many narrative
narrative techniques
techniques used
used in
various design
design methodologies
methodologies such
such as
as the
the use
use of
of personas
scenarios user
user stories
stories and
and storyboarding
in software
software systems
systems development
these methods
methods have
have been
been shown
shown to
have communicative
communicative power
power in
in the
the exchange
exchange between
between designers
designers of
of technology
and their
their client
client or
or user
user group
group but
but these
these remain
remain isolated
isolated methods
methods that
have not
not been
been theorized
theorized about
about as
as a
a whole
second in
in technology
technology design
design it
it is
is openly
openly acknowledged
acknowledged that
that approaches
to design
design can
can be
be metaphoric
software development
development is
is likened
likened to
engineering or
or architecture
architecture and
and design
design methodologies
methodologies such
such as
waterfall agile
agile and
and spiral
spiral each
each make
make use
use of
of a
a metaphor
metaphor whether
rigorously or
or no
metaphors both
both reveal
reveal and
and conceal
conceal and
and are
are limited
limited in
in that
that they
they cannot
provide an
an exhaustive
exhaustive framework
framework for
for the
the evaluation
evaluation or
or validation
validation of
of best
practices of
of design
still as
as young
young disciplines
disciplines technology
technology design
design and
design studies
studies can
can benefit
benefit from
from a
a greater
greater diversity
diversity of
of metaphors
than encouraging
encouraging a
a winnertakesall
winnertakesall atmosphere
atmosphere among
among competing
methodologies we
we should
should take
take the
the time
time to
to investigate
investigate many
many metaphors
metaphors for
design especially
especially since
since the
the field
field is
is still
still a
a contested
contested domain
domain with
allegiances that
that cross
cross disciplinary
disciplinary boundaries
boundaries of
of art
art science
science and
social science
as am
am emergent
emergent field
field seeking
seeking growth
growth and
and foundational
knowledge we
we must
must be
be wary
wary of
of eschewing
eschewing practices
practices that
that do
do not
not fit
existing paradigms
authorship as
as a
a lens
lens for
for analysis
analysis not
not only
only reveals
new information
information about
about older
older design
design practices
practices but
but also
also defines
defines a
a new
space for
for understanding
understanding emerging
emerging practices
practices that
that have
have thus
thus far
far been
been set
aside by
by academia
academia as
as counterproductive
third technical
technical authorship
authorship is
is a
a metaphor
metaphor that
that opens
opens the
the door
door to
collaborative authoring
authoring that
that is
is the
the creation
creation of
of coauthored
coauthored technical
with many
many technology
technology design
design studies
studies scholars
scholars interested
interested in
in the
politics of
of design
design authorship
authorship can
can shed
shed new
new light
light on
on the
the power
power struggles
within design
design and
and suggest
suggest new
new paths
paths to
to empowerment
haraways method
method of
of figuration
figuration causes
causes a
a different
different sort
sort of
of reflection
reflection on
design practice
practice than
than other
other approaches
approaches to
to the
the politics
politics of
of design
figuration allows
allows us
us to
to think
think about
about how
how we
we might
might want
want to
to shape
shape or
refigure the
the role
role of
of the
the user
user and
and designer
designer instead
instead of
of resisting
resisting this
haraway suggests
suggests a
a method
method of
of diffraction
diffraction for
refiguration which
which we
we will
will not
not go
go into
into in
in this
this paper
and finally
finally there
there are
are many
many parallels
parallels between
between science
science studies
studies and
technology studies
studies that
that are
are only
only beginning
beginning to
to be
be explored
in this
this paper
we will
will be
be drawing
drawing some
some parallels
parallels that
that at
at times
times are
are a
a bit
bit shaky
between technical
technical authorship
authorship and
and scientific
scientific authorship
authorship with
with the
the hope
that future
future work
work that
that takes
takes up
up this
this approach
approach might
might lead
lead us
us to
to a
a better
understanding of
of the
the relationship
relationship between
between science
science and
and technology
technical authorship
the concept
concept of
of authorship
authorship in
in the
the sciences
sciences which
which was
was introduced
introduced above
is that
that of
of an
an author
author who
who presents
presents facts
facts about
about the
the natural
natural world
world he
but authorship
authorship of
of technology
technology seems
seems to
to differ
differ from
scientific authorship
authorship in
in that
that it
it is
is less
less a
a particular
particular voice
voice found
found in
in the
texts designers
designers produce
produce than
than the
the very
very material
material shape
shape of
of their
in science
science studies
studies however
however much
much attention
attention has
has been
been drawn
to the
the way
way that
that texts
texts of
of all
all kinds
kinds from
from reports
reports to
to talks
talks to
to notebook
scribbles and
and the
the scientific
scientific instruments
instruments play
play a
a role
role in
in authoring
in design
design it
it is
is often
often use
use itself
itself that
that is
is authored
where the
the technological
technological product
product the
the design
design methodology
methodology and
and even
even the
users themselves
themselves provide
provide the
the assemblage
assemblage that
that shapes
shapes use
so the
material nature
nature of
of authoring
authoring technology
technology is
is not
not a
a major
major issue
however in
in order
order to
to extend
extend authorship
authorship analysis
analysis to
to technology
technology design
design the
idea of
of technical
technical authorship
authorship still
still needs
needs to
to be
be introduced
introduced in
in order
order to
clarify how
how authorship
authorship applies
applies to
to design
design of
of technology
authorship is
is a
a way
way to
to look
look at
at technology
technology not
not as
as only
only an
an artifact
artifact that
is constructed
constructed but
but also
also as
as a
a vision
vision of
of the
the future
future that
that is
is authored
is a
a technical
technical future
future that
that is
is authored
authored through
through the
the practices
practices of
of the
designer which
which can
can include
include any
any number
number of
of activities
activities such
such as
requirements engineering
engineering prototyping
prototyping iterative
iterative development
development and
especially through
through its
its successful
successful implementation
implementation and
and use
authorship is
is just
just one
one lens
lens or
or metaphor
metaphor through
through which
which to
to examine
examine these
design practices
practices but
but it
it is
is one
one that
that is
is relatively
relatively unexplored
unexplored despite
the presence
presence of
of narrative
narrative techniques
techniques in
in various
various design
design methodologies
this paper
paper will
will apply
apply analysis
analysis of
of authorship
authorship to
to some
some design
methodologies in
in order
order to
to reveal
reveal just
just a
a sampling
sampling of
of the
the potential
outcomes that
that this
this approach
approach can
can bring
in particular
particular it
it is
is the
the opinion
of this
this papers
papers authors
authors that
that certain
certain practices
practices in
in design
design that
that are
are often
considered atheoretical
atheoretical or
or amethodological
amethodological may
may be
be better
better elucidated
through this
this alternate
alternate metaphor
metaphor of
of technical
technical authorship
authorship analysis
analysis of
of technology
technology design
a note
note on
on scope
it would
would be
be impossible
impossible to
to exhaust
exhaust the
the potential
potential for
for analyzing
analyzing authorship
in technology
technology design
design in
in a
a single
single paper
instead we
we will
will provide
provide a
a single
attempt to
to look
look at
at software
software design
design methodologies
methodologies through
through authorship
analysis as
as a
a way
way to
to demonstrate
demonstrate the
the powers
powers of
of this
this approach
in our
research labs
labs ongoing
ongoing research
research we
we contend
contend that
that design
design methodologies
exist in
in two
two forms
forms prescriptive
prescriptive and
and empirical
empirical and
and it
it is
is infrequent
that a
a prescriptive
prescriptive method
method is
is followed
followed precisely
precisely or
or that
that empirical
design is
is ever
ever amethodical
amethodical even
even when
when it
it does
does not
not follow
follow a
a prescribed
in this
this paper
paper we
we will
will attempt
attempt to
to investigate
investigate the
the rhetorics
rhetorics of
of authorship
located in
in prescriptive
prescriptive design
design methodologies
methodologies but
but we
we also
also want
want to
to point
out that
that there
there would
would be
be equal
equal if
if not
not greater
greater value
value in
in applying
authorship analysis
analysis to
to investigate
investigate empirical
empirical design
design practices
practices where
where a
specific technical
technical future
future useproduct
useproduct is
is authored
by approaching
design methodologies
methodologies as
as rhetorical
rhetorical devices
devices we
we will
will also
also touch
touch upon
upon the
authorial voice
voice of
of those
those design
design researchers
researchers who
who are
are writing
writing the
the design
you will
will notice
notice in
in the
the quotations
quotations provided
provided that
that it
wanders a
a great
great deal
at times
times it
it is
is the
the scientific
scientific author
author modest
presenting design
design as
as a
a scientific
scientific object
object of
of study
at other
other times
times it
it is
a voice
voice that
that resembles
resembles inspirational
inspirational or
or selfhelp
selfhelp writing
writing leading
leading the
readerdesigner through
through personal
personal development
development to
to better
better design
design practice
design methodologies
methodologies as
as rhetorics
rhetorics of
of authorship
the first
first thing
thing that
that becomes
becomes clear
clear in
in looking
looking at
at prescriptive
prescriptive design
methodology literature
literature is
is that
that nearly
nearly all
all design
design methodologies
methodologies must
address the
the relationship
relationship between
between a
a user
user and
and a
a designer
designer though
though there
there is
some design
design literature
literature which
which treats
treats design
design much
much more
more as
as an
an artistic
artistic and
craft approach
approach and
and disregards
disregards the
the user
user and
and use
use entirely
while there
there are
are many
many design
design approaches
approaches that
that explicitly
explicitly address
address the
divide between
between the
the designer
designer and
and the
the user
user these
these do
do not
not view
view the
the conflict
as one
one of
of contested
contested authorship
rather the
the divide
divide between
between the
designers vision
vision and
and the
the users
users experience
experience is
is most
most frequently
addressed because
because of
of the
the urgent
urgent and
and abrupt
abrupt way
way that
that the
the latter
latter can
rupture the
the former
massive failures
failures of
of systems
systems are
are often
often cited
cited as
evidence that
that design
design should
should involve
involve the
the user
through the
the lens
lens of
authorship it
it becomes
becomes clear
clear that
that both
both technical
technical expert
expert designer
designer and
nontechnical nonexpert
nonexpert the
the user
user are
are envisioning
envisioning the
the technology
technology in
different ways
the design
design process
process then
then appears
appears as
as a
a negotiation
negotiation or
conflict over
over authorship
authorship which
which in
in many
many cases
cases does
does not
not truly
truly resolve
many approaches
approaches to
to technical
technical systems
systems design
design seek
seek to
to involve
involve the
the user
explicitly in
in the
the design
design process
methods such
such as
as participatory
participatory design
seeks a
a political
political aim
aim to
to deinstrumentalize
deinstrumentalize the
the user
user who
can often
often be
be the
the subject
subject of
of power
power alliances
alliances between
between designers
designers and
participatory design
design has
has revealed
revealed design
design as
as embedded
embedded within
within a
politics of
of the
the workplace
because of
of this
this it
it has
has focused
focused primarily
primarily on
the conflict
conflict between
between management
management and
and the
the worker
worker and
and on
on combating
combating the
the ways
that technology
technology can
can instrumentalize
instrumentalize the
the user
usercentered design
design on
the other
other hand
hand has
has focused
focused on
on the
the conflict
conflict as
as a
a research
research problem
problem and
involves the
the user
user for
for a
a clearer
clearer understanding
understanding of
of user
user and
and task
this approach
approach may
may produce
produce technology
technology that
that does
does not
instrumentalize the
the user
user in
in a
a heideggerian
heideggerian sense
sense but
but does
does forge
forge the
user into
into the
the designers
designers instrument
instrument for
for understanding
understanding use
in agile
agile software
software development
development and
and extreme
extreme programming
programming the
the tension
tension shifts
in the
the other
other direction
the technical
technical engineer
engineer is
is seen
seen to
to have
have been
disempowered in
in the
the workplace
workplace unable
unable to
to take
take pride
pride in
in the
the craft
craft of
software design
design and
and instrumentalized
instrumentalized as
as the
the tool
tool through
through which
which software
is enacted
the agile
agile manifesto
manifesto and
and books
books like
like extreme
programming explained
explained embrace
embrace change
change by
by kent
kent beck
beck introduce
introduce a
message to
to empower
empower the
the programmer
programmer or
or software
software engineer
engineer through
through a
a kind
kind of
bottomup subversive
subversive selfmanagement
selfmanagement technique
through the
the lens
lens of
of authorship
authorship both
both participatory
participatory design
design and
and agile
methods can
can be
be seen
seen as
as attempts
attempts at
at coauthorship
coauthorship though
though this
this analysis
will shift
shift the
the metaphor
metaphor away
away from
from that
that of
of democratic
democratic participation
participation or
involvement used
used by
by these
these design
design researchers
the impact
impact of
of this
this shift
will be
be a
a focus
focus on
on the
the tension
tension between
between author
author subject
subject and
and authored
this turns
turns out
out to
to be
be extremely
extremely useful
useful in
in understanding
emerging software
software design
design methodologies
methodologies that
that have
have so
so far
far been
the current
current state
state of
of contested
contested authorship
authorship in
in technology
technology design
a literature
literature review
review was
was conducted
conducted on
on prescriptive
prescriptive software
software design
methodologies including
including participatory
participatory design
design contextual
inquiry situated
situated actions
actions and
and the
the use
use of
of personas
scenarios and
and user
user stories
analysis and
and use
use of
of haraways
haraways figuration
figuration technique
technique resulted
resulted in
in the
recognition that
that authorship
authorship is
is currently
currently contested
contested in
in technology
technology design
the results
results of
of this
this analysis
analysis are
are summarized
summarized here
here by
by illustrating
illustrating how
figuration can
can fall
fall along
along a
a continuum
continuum of
of subject
subject to
to object
with the
the modest
modest witness
witness we
we see
see an
an authoritative
authoritative authorfigure
authorfigure who
who is
is at
the same
same time
time made
made subjectless
in the
the rhetorics
rhetorics of
of technology
technology design
there is
is a
a tension
tension where
where the
the userfigure
userfigure can
can either
either be
be a
a subject
subject or
or an
figure seq
seq figure
figure arabic
the subjectobject
subjectobject continuum
personas are
are a
a technique
technique used
used frequently
frequently in
in largescale
largescale systems
systems design
companies conduct
conduct a
a research
research phase
phase during
during which
which social
social science
practitioners study
study the
the actual
actual users
users and
and derive
derive data
data in
in the
the form
form of
archetypal characters
by the
the end
end of
of the
the research
research phase
phase users
empirical individuals
individuals are
are transformed
transformed into
into objects
objects they
they are
are in
in a
sense authored
authored by
by the
the researcher
participatory design
design on
on the
the other
hand explicitly
explicitly critiques
critiques these
these kinds
kinds of
of methods
methods which
which reify
reify the
the user
and seeks
seeks to
to reengage
reengage with
with the
the user
user as
as a
a subject
this kind
kind of
movement can
can be
be illustrated
illustrated as
as one
one along
along a
a continuum
continuum of
of the
the user
user as
subject or
or object
object figure
the user
user can
can never
never be
be fully
fully realized
realized as
as a
subject since
since the
the user
user is
is a
a figure
figure in
in the
the rhetoric
rhetoric of
of design
design and
so belongs
belongs to
to its
its narrative
technology design
design rhetorics
rhetorics reveal
reveal a
a corresponding
corresponding tension
tension within
within the
designer figure
many design
design methodologies
methodologies outline
outline techniques
techniques by
which the
the designer
designer can
can arrive
arrive at
at an
an objective
objective understanding
understanding of
contextual inquiry
inquiry warns
warns that
that this
this is
is not
not entirely
entirely possible
and focuses
focuses on
on the
the agency
agency of
of the
the user
user in
in defining
defining use
still even
even these
techniques are
are used
used to
to help
help the
the designer
designer witness
witness and
and provide
provide an
an account
of a
a kind
kind of
of objective
objective use
less worried
worried about
about the
reification of
of the
the user
user personas
personas and
and scenarios
scenarios are
are said
said to
to help
help the
designer step
step out
out of
of and
and transcend
transcend his
his role
role in
in as
as if
if on
on a
a heros
journey to
to discover
discover true
true use
even when
when expressly
expressly conscious
conscious of
of the
reification of
of the
the user
user as
as in
in participatory
participatory design
design the
the designer
figure himself
himself presents
presents a
a significant
significant problem
problem to
to the
the rhetoric
rhetoric because
because he
embodies the
the powerknowledge
powerknowledge of
of the
the technical
technical language
authorship analysis
analysis suggests
suggests that
that we
we add
add the
the designer
designer into
into the
subjectobject continuum
continuum as
as pictured
pictured below
below figure
figure seq
seq figure
figure arabic
figuration of
of the
the designer
designer and
and the
this reveals
reveals that
that the
the designer
designer can
can also
also be
be reified
reified in
in the
the rhetoric
rhetoric of
technical authorship
coders can
can be
be seen
seen as
as the
the instrument
instrument for
for obtaining
technological artifacts
artifacts as
as much
much as
as users
users can
can be
be seen
seen as
as the
the instrument
for obtaining
obtaining objective
objective use
this new
new dimensionality
dimensionality provides
provides a
space for
for understanding
understanding practices
practices such
such as
as agile
agile software
software development
which has
has otherwise
otherwise been
been seen
seen to
to contribute
contribute little
little to
to the
the field
figure seq
seq figure
figure arabic
figuration in
in different
different software
agile can
can be
be seen
seen here
here figure
figure as
as a
a political
political movement
movement to
to engage
engage the
software developer
developer as
as subject
subject instead
instead of
of object
the division
division of
of those
involved in
in design
design into
into the
the categories
categories of
of technical
technical expert
expert and
nontechnical nonexpert
nonexpert demonstrates
demonstrates that
that the
the userfigure
userfigure and
designerfigure can
can be
be located
located in
in diverse
diverse relationships
relationships within
within this
subjectobject continuum
different movements
movements are
are illustrated
illustrated by
locating methodologies
methodologies within
within this
this continuum
furthermore we
we note
note the
relatively unexplored
unexplored are
are where
where both
both designers
designers and
and users
users are
are situated
situated as
these tensions
tensions between
between subject
subject and
and object
object and
and the
the current
current state
state of
affairs in
in the
the rhetorics
rhetorics of
of technical
technical authorship
authorship suggest
suggest that
that the
the role
of the
the designer
designer as
as author
author is
is contingent
contingent on
on the
the figuration
figuration of
of the
the user
and likewise
likewise that
that the
the role
role of
of the
the user
user as
as author
author is
is contingent
contingent on
on the
figuration of
of the
the designer
before we
we attempt
attempt to
to address
address these
these tensions
politically through
through projects
projects to
to explore
explore the
the space
space where
where both
both designer
and user
user are
are subjects
subjects we
we should
should first
first aim
aim to
to understand
understand how
how these
these two
are figured
figured in
in design
design methods
methods and
and practices
figuration of
of the
the user
user and
and designer
we will
will now
now turn
turn to
to the
the rhetorics
rhetorics of
of authorship
authorship found
found in
in design
methodology literature
literature and
and begin
begin to
to shape
shape the
the figure
figure of
of the
the user
user and
and the
designer that
that we
we found
found through
through our
our literature
literature search
when viewed
viewed as
methodologies each
each approach
approach may
may be
be seen
seen to
to align
align with
with or
or critique
another approach
but with
with the
the technique
technique of
of figuration
figuration what
what we
we look
look for
is the
the emergent
emergent figure
figure of
of the
the user
user not
not something
something generalized
generalized from
from the
the userfigure
userfigure that
that emerges
emerges is
is unwieldy
unwieldy difficult
difficult to
to communicate
communicate with
and repellent
in the
the everyday
everyday practice
practice of
of software
software engineers
engineers it
it is
is a
common sense
sense notion
notion that
that engineers
engineers do
do not
not want
want to
to speak
speak with
with actual
users that
that they
they are
are incapable
incapable of
of communicating
communicating with
with users
users and
and that
users are
are irksome
irksome in
in their
their language
language and
and demands
latour refers
refers to
the fierceness
fierceness of
of disputes
disputes in
in the
the early
early stages
stages before
before a
a fact
becomes a
a fact
there is
is a
a similar
similar fierceness
fierceness in
in the
the early
early stages
stages of
design when
when requirements
requirements are
are not
not fleshed
fleshed out
out and
and this
this antagonism
antagonism arises
between the
the user
user and
and the
the designer
the userfigure
userfigure is
is a
a point
point of
of access
access to
to a
a naturalized
naturalized use
designers who
who advocate
advocate for
for usercentered
usercentered design
design or
or participatory
design will
will criticize
criticize projects
projects that
that do
do not
not involve
involve the
the real
real user
user in
the design
design process
process saying
saying that
that the
the wants
wants and
and needs
needs of
of real
real users
users can
never be
be known
known without
without speaking
speaking directly
directly to
to users
in largescale
largescale projects
projects designers
designers will
will often
often be
be speak
speak to
to users
users without
such political
political motivations
motivations as
as a
a pragmatic
pragmatic way
way to
to understand
understand the
technologys future
future use
in this
this case
case a
a researcher
researcher will
will often
often serve
serve as
a proxy
proxy to
to study
study interview
interview and
and observe
observe users
users and
and communicate
communicate use
back to
to the
the designer
in this
this case
case the
the userfigure
userfigure is
is a
a way
way to
to ward
ward off
false use
he is
is a
a test
test for
for the
the purity
purity of
of use
this purity
purity is
is set
set against
against the
the impurity
impurity of
of the
the designer
designer as
as a
a solution
to the
the issue
issue of
of communication
the trouble
trouble with
with the
the engineer
engineer is
is that
that he
is bad
bad at
at talking
talking to
to users
users and
and there
there is
is also
also the
the issue
issue of
of scale
scale when
the user
user group
group and
and the
the company
company hired
hired to
to design
design technology
technology may
may both
both be
too large
large to
to interact
interact in
in a
a personal
personal way
the designerfigure
designerfigure must
must have
have access
access to
to the
the userfigure
userfigure because
because getting
it right
right matters
matters particularly
particularly in
in large
large projects
projects where
where massive
massive failures
can arise
there are
are many
many invaluable
invaluable contributions
contributions of
of research
research in
in this
area highlighting
highlighting context
context cognitive
cognitive models
models and
and cultures
cultures of
of the
this literature
literature notes
notes that
that technology
technology must
must work
work hand
hand in
in hand
not only
only with
with use
use but
but also
also with
with context
context cognition
cognition culture
culture training
and management
two major
major disciplinary
disciplinary outcomes
outcomes have
have been
been the
the idea
idea of
coevolution and
and situated
situated actions
the first
first concept
concept tells
us that
that local
local contextual
contextual practices
practices will
will shape
shape how
how a
a technology
technology is
adopted and
and technology
technology will
will always
always change
change those
those same
same practices
cognitive models
models and
and cultures
cultures a
a priori
priori will
will never
never satisfy
satisfy these
conditions there
there must
must be
be some
some support
support for
for a
a backandforth
backandforth either
either of
prototyping or
or studying
studying use
use at
at various
various stages
situated actions
actions highlights
highlights two
two aspects
aspects context
context and
and action
refigures the
the user
user as
as an
an actor
actor who
who makes
makes use
use of
of technology
technology in
in many
many ways
based on
on situations
situations in
in which
which he
he acts
it implies
implies the
the autonomy
autonomy and
and agency
of the
the user
user but
but only
only in
in a
a rhetorical
rhetorical way
the situations
situations and
and the
actions are
are still
still seen
seen as
as knowledge
knowledge which
which can
can be
be obtained
obtained in
in a
a modestly
objective way
way through
through a
a discipline
discipline of
of studying
studying the
the context
context of
of the
technology in
in search
search for
for situations
situations and
and actions
actions rather
rather than
than uses
only that
that it
it subjugates
subjugates the
the designer
designer to
to the
the technology
technology as
as well
well by
marking the
the agency
agency and
and autonomy
autonomy of
of the
the designer
designer as
as immodest
it flips
the hierarchy
hierarchy placing
placing the
the actorusers
actorusers as
as autonomous
autonomous and
and above
technology the
the technology
technology itself
itself should
should be
be as
as objective
objective as
as possible
and the
the designeruser
designeruser as
as a
a modest
modest witness
witness to
to the
the usertechnology
it sets
sets up
up an
an ideal
ideal vision
vision of
of a
a design
design process
process that
develops technology
technology for
for a
a singleperson
singleperson singlesituation
singlesituation in
in which
which the
voice of
of the
the designer
designer is
is muted
muted and
and the
the designer
designer is
is the
the instrument
instrument for
obtaining the
the technology
participatory design
design makes
makes explicit
explicit that
that the
the user
user is
is a
a usersubject
usersubject of
the technologyemployer
technologyemployer alliance
technology should
should align
align itself
itself instead
with the
the userworker
this acknowledges
acknowledges the
the knowledgepower
knowledgepower of
technology itself
itself if
if it
it is
is authored
authored by
by management
this is
is a
a first
first step
in recognizing
recognizing the
the question
question of
of who
who should
should author
author a
a system
but it
it does
not acknowledge
acknowledge the
the powerknowledge
powerknowledge of
of the
the developer
developer that
that still
still exists
in participatory
participatory design
design i
the possession
possession of
of the
the technical
technical languages
including code
the first
first and
and most
most crucial
crucial reflection
reflection is
is that
that the
the user
user must
must be
be figured
into the
the design
design process
even when
when the
the designer
designer responds
responds to
to a
a call
call to
empower the
the user
user or
or support
support the
the users
users actions
actions design
design of
of technology
always imagines
imagines use
use and
and figures
figures a
a user
often the
the rhetoric
rhetoric of
participatory design
design and
and other
other design
design methods
methods that
that are
are conscious
conscious of
of the
conflict struggles
struggles with
with this
this tension
some generalizable
generalizable use
use is
maintained and
and this
this upsets
upsets the
the idealized
idealized relationship
relationship between
between the
designer and
and user
whether the
the design
design process
process refigures
refigures the
the user
user as
as a
participant or
or an
an actor
actor the
the word
word user
user fails
fails to
to fall
fall away
we would
would like
like to
to consider
consider the
the user
user as
as a
a figure
figure because
because it
it enables
enables us
to see
see the
the design
design process
process as
as a
a narrative
narrative in
in which
which the
the user
user is
is the
primary figure
an alternative
alternative response
response then
then is
is not
not to
to remove
remove the
the user
but to
to refigure
refigure or
or mutate
mutate the
the user
user but
but continue
continue to
to see
see the
the user
user as
central to
to the
the narrative
we can
can see
see how
how participatory
participatory design
design and
and other
usercentered projects
projects are
are attempts
attempts to
to refigure
refigure the
the user
often it
it seems
that the
the new
new processes
processes have
have been
been achieved
achieved but
but that
that the
the refiguring
refiguring of
of the
user has
has in
in some
some senses
senses failed
a figure
figure collects
collects up
up the
the people
people a
a figure
figure embodies
embodies shared
shared meanings
meanings in
stories that
that inhabit
inhabit their
their audiences
if we
we understand
understand current
approaches to
to technology
technology design
design as
as narratives
narratives we
we can
can already
already see
see that
the user
user is
is a
a figure
figure that
that collects
collects up
up the
the people
the user
user collects
collects up
the selection
selection of
of people
people who
who are
are seen
seen to
to be
be the
the receivers
receivers of
of technology
while designers
designers may
may select
select particular
particular users
users to
to involve
involve in
in the
the design
process the
the userfigure
userfigure clearly
clearly points
points to
to the
the collection
collection of
of all
all people
who will
will be
be users
users which
which will
will inevitably
inevitably include
include the
the designers
the userfigure
userfigure embodies
embodies shared
shared meanings
meanings of
of use
use within
within the
contested space
space of
of what
what users
users and
and designers
designers make
make of
of the
the technology
technology being
in technology
technology design
design the
the designer
designer has
has legitimate
legitimate authority
authority over
over the
object world
world of
of designed
designed objects
objects but
but this
this authority
authority does
does not
not follow
follow the
same modesty
modesty of
of the
the scientific
scientific author
the designer
designer no
no matter
matter the
efforts to
to empower
empower users
users is
is one
one who
who intervenes
intervenes through
through the
the technology
she creates
the designer
designer is
is at
at times
times expressive
expressive through
through the
the medium
medium of
technological innovation
at other
other times
times especially
especially in
in much
much of
of design
methodology the
the focus
focus shifts
shifts to
to the
the user
user and
and the
the designer
designer as
as a
a subject
recedes from
from view
however in
in what
what the
the designer
designer knows
knows and
and in
in how
how she
intervenes she
she is
is immodest
and in
in the
the modes
modes through
through which
which the
designer tries
tries to
to achieve
achieve objectivity
objectivity e
through a
a focus
focus on
on the
user she
she is
is immodest
using the
the lens
lens of
of authorship
authorship we
we can
can further
further analyze
analyze this
this immodest
immodest role
of the
the designer
designer whose
whose voice
voice remains
remains authorial
authorial even
even if
if there
there are
are moves
moves to
limit that
that voice
the immodesty
immodesty begins
begins to
to make
make sense
sense once
once we
we realize
that designs
designs authorial
authorial voice
voice has
has not
not yet
yet stabilized
stabilized in
in the
the way
way that
that the
scientific author
author has
and designers
designers as
as a
a whole
whole are
are ambivalent
ambivalent or
or take
conflicting views
views on
on the
the designers
designers role
role as
as an
an author
author whether
whether to
to be
expressive or
or selfinvisible
and attempts
attempts to
to place
place the
the designer
designer in
the selfinvisible
selfinvisible mode
mode of
of the
the modest
modest witness
witness are
are ultimately
unsuccessful because
because of
of the
the technical
technical skill
skill required
required to
to author
author the
technology to
to which
which in
in most
most cases
cases only
only the
the designer
designer has
has access
literature on
on participatory
participatory design
design and
and scenarios
scenarios both
both consider
consider the
the need
to get
get software
software and
and design
design professionals
professionals to
to step
step out
out of
of their
their role
role and
into a
a new
new role
this is
is one
one way
way in
in which
which the
the user
user is
is clearly
clearly a
a figure
a role
role that
that can
can be
be taken
taken on
on by
by the
the design
design professional
professional who
who chooses
chooses to
step out
out of
of his
his role
can software
software professionals
professionals recognize
recognize and
and affirm
the validity
validity of
of perspectives
perspectives other
other than
than their
their own
own and
and value
value the
expertise that
that comes
comes from
from experience
experience not
not just
just the
the knowledge
knowledge that
that is
attested by
by academic
academic credentials
this acknowledges
acknowledges a
a kind
kind of
common sense
sense notion
notion that
that software
software professionals
professionals need
need to
to be
be disciplined
to seek
seek outside
outside perspectives
in five
five reasons
reasons for
for scenariobased
scenariobased design
carroll suggests
suggests that
that scenarios
scenarios aid
aid in
in reflection
reflection is
is not
always comfortable
comfortable it
it forces
forces one
one to
to consider
consider ones
ones own
own competence
competence to
open oneself
oneself to
to the
the possibility
possibility of
of being
being wrong
this provides
provides a
sense that
that reflection
reflection is
is possible
possible but
but that
that reflection
reflection of
of a
a different
kind does
does not
not come
come easily
easily and
and must
must be
be fashioned
fashioned through
through discipline
discipline and
in carrolls
carrolls guide
guide to
to using
using scenarios
scenarios the
the designer
designer is
is figured
figured as
as a
a kind
of hero
hero technical
technical professionals
professionals are
are intelligent
intelligent people
people performing
complex and
and openended
openended tasks
they want
want to
to reflect
reflect on
on their
their activities
and they
they routinely
routinely do
do reflect
reflect on
on their
their activities
activities but
but they
they require
require an
extra push
push to
to surmount
surmount that
that higher
higher peak
peak to
to reflect
reflect on
on experiences
experiences of
the nontechnical
nontechnical nonprofessional
nonprofessional user
the herodesigner
herodesigner must
must pander
to user
user experience
experience user
user expertise
expertise about
about experience
experience and
and must
transcend his
his role
the user
user is
is seen
seen as
as having
having expertise
expertise about
about his
his own
experience in
in both
both participatory
participatory design
design and
and other
other usercentered
usercentered design
expertise of
of experience
experience is
is a
a substitute
substitute word
word for
for subjectivity
subjectivity and
and still
poses the
the designer
designer as
as residing
residing in
in the
the world
world of
of objectivity
objectivity but
but needing
to reflect
reflect on
on the
the subjective
subjective world
world in
in which
which his
his work
work will
will ultimately
techniques to
to step
step out
out of
of the
the role
role of
of designer
designer or
or to
to communicate
communicate with
real users
users are
are often
often narrative
narrative in
in form
there are
are scenarios
scenarios which
attempt to
to provide
provide plain
plain english
english accounts
accounts of
of use
use in
in a
a chronological
ordering like
like a
a story
story or
or more
more accurately
accurately like
like one
one cohesive
cohesive scene
scene in
in a
scenarios are
are most
most often
often written
written by
by developers
developers after
after meeting
meeting with
a customer
customer or
or user
user and
and are
are then
then provided
provided back
back to
to the
the user
user or
or customer
for verification
verification or
or even
even as
as a
a contract
contract for
for work
user stories
stories in
extreme programming
programming another
another software
software process
process are
are also
also used
used as
as small
units of
of work
work that
that are
are agreed
agreed upon
upon in
in an
an iterative
iterative weekly
weekly meeting
meeting and
which describe
describe features
features in
in the
the language
language of
of the
the user
the discomfort
discomfort of
of reflection
reflection in
in the
the design
design process
process is
is noted
noted and
and is
moderated in
in the
the techniques
techniques of
of scenarios
scenarios and
and personas
personas by
by a
a mutation
mutation of
the user
user into
into something
something that
that the
the developer
developer has
has authored
authored and
and created
user as
as a
a persona
persona or
or within
within the
the plot
plot of
of a
a scenario
scenario is
is generic
generic and
and though
this figure
figure can
can make
make the
the designer
designer uncomfortable
uncomfortable he
he is
is ultimately
ultimately a
phantom of
of the
the designers
designers own
own mind
mind and
and thus
thus the
the designer
designer remains
remains in
the designer
designer is
is described
described as
as being
being brought
brought into
into an
an intimate
engagement with
with the
the concrete
concrete elements
elements of
of the
the situation
situation the
the situation
that belongs
belongs to
to the
the user
user and
and is
is obtained
obtained by
by a
a reflection
reflection on
on the
experience of
of the
the user
an intimacy
intimacy with
with the
the person
person who
who will
will use
use the
system appears
appears too
too dangerous
dangerous to
to request
request of
of the
the designer
subjectivity of
of the
the user
user is
is again
again removed
the intimacy
intimacy that
that the
designer should
should aim
aim to
to achieve
achieve is
is with
with concrete
concrete elements
elements of
of the
situation i
something objective
objective about
about the
the subjectivity
designer requires
requires something
something objective
objective to
to take
take away
away in
in order
order to
to design
this is
is especially
especially seen
seen in
in the
the use
use of
of personas
personas in
in the
the design
design process
personas are
are a
a literary
literary technique
technique first
first adopted
adopted in
in marketing
marketing and
and then
then in
product design
design and
and ultimately
ultimately in
in largescale
largescale software
software design
design projects
grudin says
says that
that personas
personas can
can be
be used
used to
to make
make up
up for
for some
shortcomings of
of usercentered
usercentered design
design and
and scenarios
scenarios particularly
particularly in
largescale projects
often these
these projects
projects require
require a
a specialist
specialist group
academic researchers
researchers to
to spend
spend time
time with
with users
users to
to study
interview and
and observe
observe them
but grudin
grudin critiques
critiques that
that the
the data
data often
meant to
to center
center design
design around
around real
real users
users fails
fails to
to engage
engage the
the designers
a solution
solution is
is personas
personas are
are fictional
fictional people
they have
have names
likenesses clothes
clothes occupations
occupations families
families friends
friends pets
pets possessions
and so
so forth
they have
have age
age gender
gender ethnicity
ethnicity educational
educational achievement
and socioeconomic
socioeconomic status
they have
have life
life stories
stories goals
goals and
and tasks
designers can
can author
author personas
personas without
without any
any basis
basis on
on real
real users
users but
grudin does
does not
not recommend
recommend this
in many
many cases
cases personas
personas are
are authored
after extensive
extensive data
data collection
collection about
about real
real users
users as
as a
a way
way to
to represent
the data
data in
in a
a more
more engaging
engaging way
personas are
are seen
seen to
to take
take on
on a
a life
life of
of their
their own
own or
or take
take over
over the
design process
at the
the sigchi
sigchi conference
conference james
james nieters
nieters of
of cisco
gave a
a report
report entitled
entitled making
making personas
personas memorable
cutout dolls
dolls of
personas used
used by
by cisco
cisco were
were provided
provided to
to conferencegoers
conferencegoers as
as takehome
nieters said
said that
that one
one of
of the
the benefits
benefits of
of personas
personas is
is that
that no
one asks
asks for
for the
the data
data that
that back
back them
them up
these very
very deliberate
deliberate figurations
figurations of
of the
the user
user into
into personas
personas seem
seem to
resolve the
the conflict
conflict of
of broken
broken communication
communication between
between the
the user
user and
personas speak
speak to
to engineers
engineers in
in a
a way
way that
that real
real users
users cannot
but personas
personas are
are also
also a
a way
way to
to elide
elide the
the issue
issue of
of authorship
the user
is kept
kept at
at a
a great
great distance
distance from
from the
the design
design and
and is
is in
in fact
fact authored
into a
a persona
persona before
before having
having a
a voice
voice in
in the
the design
design process
the designer
thus behaves
behaves as
as a
a ventriloquist
ventriloquist for
for the
the user
user as
as objectworld
persona that
that the
the designer
designer authored
authored is
is inverted
inverted in
in the
the hierarchy
hierarchy such
that the
the userfigure
userfigure is
is in
in control
control of
of the
the design
design but
but is
is not
not a
a threat
threat to
haraway says
says that
that the
the modest
modest witness
witness is
is the
the legitimate
legitimate and
and authorized
ventriloquist for
for the
the object
object world
world adding
adding nothing
nothing from
from his
his mere
opinions from
from his
his biasing
biasing embodiment
the designer
designer fits
fits the
the role
of an
an immodest
immodest witness
witness because
because he
he is
is the
the authorized
authorized ventriloquist
ventriloquist for
the user
user world
world but
but his
his opinions
opinions and
and biases
biases are
are what
what figure
figure him
him as
as the
author of
of the
the designed
designed technology
this immodesty
immodesty is
is a
a paradoxical
unlike the
the modest
modest witness
witness the
the designer
designer is
is incapable
incapable of
he must
must step
step out
out of
of the
the way
way for
for the
the user
user to
speak the
the needs
needs of
of the
the system
system he
he must
must ventriloquize
ventriloquize this
this speech
modestly but
but then
then he
he must
must become
become visible
visible in
in the
the same
same moment
moment through
through his
authorship of
of the
the technology
technology that
that justifies
justifies the
the design
design process
in participatory
participatory design
design there
there is
is a
a clear
clear reframing
reframing of
of software
software design
design as
a political
political process
process that
that involves
involves a
a conflict
conflict of
of expertise
expertise and
and as
as a
politics of
of knowledgecreation
it also
also frames
frames participation
participation in
in the
design process
process as
as not
not mere
mere involvement
muller also
acknowledges that
that participation
participation in
in the
the design
design process
process is
is an
an issue
issue of
communication through
through language
language or
or through
through artifacts
however muller
also creates
creates a
a taxonomy
taxonomy of
of participatory
participatory design
design practice
practice that
that poses
poses a
dual axis
axis of
of practice
practice based
based how
how early
early or
or late
late the
the user
user participates
participates in
the design
design process
process and
and how
how much
much the
the user
user participates
participates in
in the
the world
world of
the designerhow
designerhow much
much the
the designer
designer participates
participates in
in the
the world
world of
of the
what is
is maintained
maintained in
in all
all these
these rhetorics
rhetorics is
is the
the underlying
underlying and
underacknowledged desire
desire of
of the
the designer
designer to
to create
create new
new ways
ways of
of doing
things and
and new
new things
things to
to do
in distancing
distancing the
the designer
designer from
from his
desire design
design methods
methods create
create a
a tension
tension between
between relinquishing
relinquishing control
through in
in order
order to
to understand
understand the
the real
real situation
situation of
of the
the users
users and
retaining an
an authorial
authorial vision
vision i
the authorship
authorship of
of the
the design
this sets
sets up
up a
a conflict
conflict that
that cannot
cannot be
be resolved
how can
can a
a designer
create new
new ways
ways of
of doing
doing things
things and
and new
new things
things to
to do
do if
if they
they are
accountable to
to the
the current
current ways
ways that
that users
users do
do things
things and
and the
the current
things that
that users
users do
the role
role of
of the
the designer
designer can
can be
be seen
seen as
as one
one of
of a
a certain
certain expertise
expertise in
conflict with
with a
a different
different expertise
expertise of
of the
the user
but there
there is
is more
more to
the role
role of
of the
the designer
designer than
than this
this kind
kind of
of expertise
designers are
are good
good at
at envisioning
envisioning use
use at
at imagining
imagining and
and bringing
bringing into
being new
new uses
uses and
and new
new ways
ways to
to use
while the
the framing
framing of
of design
design as
embedded within
within economic
economic and
and political
political projects
projects allows
allows the
the designer
designer to
consider the
the obligation
obligation to
to empower
empower the
the user
user as
as a
a workersubject
workersubject it
it does
not allow
allow us
us to
to consider
consider the
the conflict
conflict of
of authorship
one can
can involve
involve the
user in
in the
the design
design process
process at
at any
any stage
stage and
and can
can migrate
migrate the
the designer
designer to
the world
world of
of the
the user
user or
or the
the user
user to
to the
the world
world of
of the
the designer
designer but
but the
authorship of
of the
the technology
technology remains
remains an
an unresolved
unresolved conflict
implications translation
translation or
or refiguration
this reframing
reframing of
of technology
technology design
design as
as technical
technical authorship
authorship leads
leads to
to the
breakdown of
of the
the designer
designer into
into the
the roles
roles of
of expert
expert author
author and
especially translator
translator between
between the
the technical
technical and
and nontechnical
nontechnical or
or popular
it lays
lays out
out a
a different
different set
set of
of obligations
obligations and
accountabilities for
for the
the designer
designer of
of technology
not only
only can
can we
we work
work to
make the
the user
user and
and the
the designer
designer subjects
subjects in
in design
design practice
technical experts
experts could
could succeed
succeed in
in bridging
bridging the
the gap
gap between
between designers
and users
users by
by defining
defining a
a new
new obligation
obligation to
to translate
translate technical
technical languages
and promote
promote technical
technical literacy
however haraway
haraway also
also warns
warns us
us that
that there
there is
is no
no way
way to
to rationality
rationality to
actually existing
existing worlds
worlds outside
outside stories
stories not
not for
for our
our species
species anyway
that is
is we
we should
should be
be wary
wary of
of defiguring
defiguring as
as a
a route
route to
to coauthorship
within science
science studies
studies she
she suggests
suggests that
that we
we should
should not
not unmask
unmask the
the modest
storytelling is
is the
the only
only way
way that
that we
we know
know about
about the
the natural
world and
and so
so the
the figure
figure of
of the
the modest
modest witness
witness affords
affords us
us a
a place
place to
begin telling
telling stories
stories about
about the
the world
if we
we strip
strip the
the empirical
individual of
of his
his figures
figures how
how will
will he
he continue
continue his
his practice
practice all
all the
more so
so we
we should
should be
be wary
wary of
of tossing
tossing out
out the
the immodest
immodest witness
witness or
if storytelling
storytelling is
is the
the only
only way
way we
we can
can understand
understand the
natural world
world as
as haraway
haraway contends
contends then
then it
it is
is most
most certainly
certainly the
the only
way that
that we
we can
can come
come to
to conceive
conceive of
of future
future worlds
worlds we
we wish
wish to
to create
refiguring the
the immodest
immodest witness
witness is
is important
important in
in order
order for
for reflective
and critical
critical design
design practices
practices to
to continue
continue to
to emerge
emerge and
and grow
and the
userfigure should
should certainly
certainly not
not be
be dealt
dealt with
with rashly
rashly because
because he
he is
designs primary
primary figure
figure that
that distinguishes
distinguishes design
design from
from science
if the
sciences had
had a
a figure
figure outside
outside of
of nature
nature herself
herself to
to contend
contend with
with perhaps
the sciences
sciences would
would be
be better
better off
that is
is not
not to
to say
say that
that the
userfigure does
does not
not need
need reshaping
but perhaps
perhaps we
we should
should embrace
embrace the
creative methods
methods found
found in
in personas
personas and
and the
the user
user stories
stories of
of agile
software development
development as
as ways
ways to
to refigure
refigure and
and reshape
reshape design
by reframing
reframing the
the conflict
conflict of
of the
the userdesigner
userdesigner relationship
relationship as
as one
one of
authorship we
we find
find a
a way
way that
that the
the user
user and
and the
the designer
designer can
can forge
forge a
different relationship
this aim
aim aligns
aligns with
with projects
projects for
for usercentered
design and
and participatory
participatory design
design that
that seek
seek a
a noninstrumentalized
usersubject but
but also
also departs
departs from
from these
these through
through the
the consideration
consideration of
the userfigure
userfigure as
as central
central and
and indispensable
indispensable to
to narratives
narratives of
of technical
through the
the mutation
mutation of
of the
the userfigure
userfigure the
the qualities
qualities that
divide the
the designerfigure
designerfigure from
from the
the userfigure
userfigure fall
fall into
into several
several roles
that are
are commonly
commonly conflated
conflated that
that of
of the
the author
author expert
expert and
and translator
while the
the politics
politics of
of the
the user
user has
has been
been highlighted
highlighted in
in various
rhetorics these
these have
have failed
failed to
to acknowledge
acknowledge the
the conflict
conflict as
as one
one of
contested authorship
these projects
projects that
that explicitly
explicitly express
express concern
for the
the user
user nonetheless
nonetheless maintain
maintain authorial
authorial control
control of
of the
the technology
in the
the hands
hands of
of the
the designer
if the
the user
user is
is the
the primary
primary figure
figure of
of the
authored narrative
narrative then
then the
the user
user as
as usersubject
usersubject stands
stands in
in the
the way
way of
authorship while
while at
at the
the same
same time
time being
being the
the instrument
instrument for
for discovering
an objective
objective use
use and
and the
the one
one whose
whose needs
needs must
must be
be satisfied
this is
an impossible
impossible position
position for
for the
the designer
designer who
who is
is lead
lead into
into a
a figurative
heros journey
by considering
considering the
the conflict
conflict of
of the
the userdesigner
userdesigner relationship
relationship as
as one
one of
authorship we
we are
are able
able to
to highlight
highlight the
the user
user as
as the
the primary
primary figure
figure of
the authored
authored work
current design
design methodologies
methodologies can
can be
be examined
examined to
understand this
this figure
figure the
the user
this reframing
reframing provides
provides the
possibility of
of considering
considering the
the coauthorship
coauthorship of
of technology
technology not
not as
as the
codesign of
of technology
it leads
leads to
to the
the breakdown
breakdown of
of the
the designer
designer into
the roles
roles of
of expert
expert contested
contested author
author and
and translator
translator between
between the
technical and
and nontechnical
nontechnical languages
it lays
lays out
out a
a different
different set
set of
obligations and
and accountabilities
accountabilities for
for the
the designer
designer of
of technology
coauthorship of
of technical
technical futures
futures retain
retain the
the user
user as
as the
the central
central figure
but place
place the
the nondesigner
nondesigner as
as a
a coauthor
coauthor of
of the
the narrative
narrative the
userfigure inhabits
inhabits including
including the
the authorship
authorship of
of a
a mutated
mutated userfigure
the designer
designer plays
plays the
the role
role of
of technical
technical expert
expert but
but also
also translator
the reframing
reframing of
of the
the problem
problem as
as one
one of
of authorship
authorship reminds
reminds us
us that
expertise is
is not
not the
the only
only mode
mode of
of authorship
authorship that
that authorship
authorship is
is not
not the
only means
means for
for the
the designer
designer to
to play
play a
a role
role and
and that
that translation
translation is
vital to
to the
the political
political project
project of
of building
building technical
technical futures
in all
all cases
cases where
where the
the user
user is
is figured
figured into
into the
the design
design process
process or
or is
refigured as
as an
an actor
actor expert
expert knowledgemaker
knowledgemaker meaningmaker
meaningmaker or
participant the
the attempt
attempt to
to avoid
avoid instrumentalization
instrumentalization fails
fails to
to some
this is
is because
because the
the user
user is
is a
a figure
figure of
of technology
technology design
design of
technology of
of the
the technical
technical and
and techne
the user
user is
is a
a figure
figure the
the focal
character in
in a
a narrative
narrative of
of imagined
imagined future
future uses
no design
design process
process can
fail to
to imagine
imagine future
future uses
practices of
of technology
technology design
design that
that do
do not
not instrumentalize
instrumentalize the
the user
user are
seen in
in approaches
approaches where
where authorship
authorship is
is highlighted
highlighted in
in the
the case
case of
artistic or
or critical
critical technology
technology design
design where
where the
the user
user is
is a
a figure
figure and
not intended
intended to
to inhabit
inhabit a
a real
real person
it is
is also
also seen
seen in
in the
abandonment of
of the
the user
user when
when designers
designers design
design for
for designers
designers as
as is
is seen
in the
the hackers
hackers and
and opensource
opensource movements
the opensource
opensource movement
movement as
kelty discusses
discusses in
in his
his article
article on
on recursive
recursive publics
publics tends
tends towards
a mutation
mutation technology
technology authorship
copyleft and
and other
other opensource
practices are
are antiauthorial
extreme programming
programming which
which is
is an
an approach
approach to
to software
software development
was fashioned
fashioned as
as a
a set
set or
or practices
practices to
to empower
empower software
software developers
developers in
the face
face of
of too
too many
many demands
demands and
and requirements
requirements from
from users
it is
is not
often highlighted
highlighted that
that this
this approach
approach also
also takes
takes a
a stance
stance against
authorship of
of code
a key
key principle
principle is
is that
that the
the code
code belongs
belongs to
additionally stories
stories are
are used
used to
to translate
translate needs
needs of
of users
users into
test cases
cases and
and test
test cases
cases translate
translate easily
easily into
into code
grudin points
points out
out that
that personas
personas are
are effective
effective because
because they
they are
are a
technique that
can draw
draw upon
upon powerful
powerful psychological
psychological forces
forces to
to restore
these dimensions
dimensions of
of engagement
engagement complexity
complexity representation
representation and
in this
this and
and his
his discussion
discussion of
of fiction
fiction grudin
grudin acknowledges
what haraway
haraway says
says that
that there
there is
is no
no way
way to
to rationalityto
rationalityto actually
existing worldsoutside
worldsoutside stories
stories not
not for
for our
our species
species anyway
the success
success of
of personas
personas and
and other
other kinds
kinds of
of narrative
narrative devices
devices in
in the
design process
process should
should not
not be
be used
used as
as a
a wedge
wedge between
between the
the user
user and
and the
instead this
this should
should form
form a
a recognition
recognition that
that the
the userfigure
is central
central and
and is
is always
always authored
authored with
with or
or without
without data
data collection
the user
user figure
figure should
should not
not be
be put
put to
to sleep
sleep but
but should
should be
be mutated
mutated as
haraway suggests
suggests with
with the
the mutation
mutation of
of the
the sciences
sciences modest
modest witness
mutation happens
happens through
through the
the focus
focus on
on technology
technology design
design as
as technology
adrian johns
johns discusses
discusses how
how authorship
authorship in
in the
the sciences
sciences was
crafted over
over time
the modern
modern authorial
authorial persona
persona was
was shaped
shaped through
shifts in
in policing
policing property
property bibliographical
bibliographical classification
classification and
understandings of
of the
the creative
creative process
in design
design the
creative process
process is
is one
one of
of the
the primary
primary narratives
narratives and
and so
so it
it is
is not
surprising that
that fictional
fictional methods
methods have
have been
been deployed
deployed in
in design
design while
they have
have been
been extricated
extricated from
from the
the scientific
scientific authorial
authorial voice
stories are
are already
already a
a part
part of
of design
design but
but they
they are
are fictional
fictional methods
methods to
convey profound
profound truths
truths when
when they
they ought
ought to
to be
be fictional
fictional methods
methods to
convey profound
profound fictions
those who
who write
write about
about a
a critical
critical technical
practice in
in technology
technology design
design such
such as
as phoebe
phoebe sengers
sengers draw
draw attention
these narratives
narratives of
of future
future use
but the
the userfigure
userfigure is
is not
not central
central to
these narratives
narratives as
as much
much as
as the
the technology
technology which
which instantiates
instantiates future
uses that
that were
were previously
previously unknown
the userfigure
userfigure is
is mutated
mutated from
from its
its original
original role
role because
because it
it is
is now
distinct from
from the
the empirical
empirical users
users is
is maintained
maintained as
as the
the central
central figure
is more
more radically
radically subjective
subjective but
but also
also intersubjective
the cats
cats cradle
that haraway
haraway discusses
discusses requires
requires a
a back
back and
and forth
forth between
between the
the designer
and nondesigner
nondesigner in
in shaping
shaping knots
knots and
and paths
paths that
that will
will make
make up
up the
narrative of
of technical
technical futures
the coauthors
coauthors are
are the
the players
players of
the game
game and
and should
should not
not be
be tied
tied up
up in
in its
its knots
the user
user figure
figure is
is the
the usemaker
usemaker to
to draw
draw on
on the
the idea
idea of
knowledgemaker he
he is
is the
the character
character in
in a
a story
story of
of rainmaking
rainmaking the
the one
who brings
brings about
about rain
rain by
by inhabiting
inhabiting a
a story
story that
that imitates
imitates the
the rain
rain and
is the
the rain
the userfigure
userfigure can
can be
be to
to the
the modest
modest witness
witness what
what the
the white
rabbit is
is to
to alice
alice or
or the
the fool
fool to
to the
the magus
magus the
the one
one who
who is
is followed
through the
the story
story to
to tell
tell the
the story
story itself
beck k
extreme programming
programming explained
explained embrace
embrace change
addisonwesley professional
beck k
et al
the agile
agile manifesto
manifesto httpagilemanifesto
biagioli m
and galison
galison p
in scientific
authorship credit
credit and
and intellectual
intellectual property
property in
in science
science m
biagoli and
galison eds
routledge new
new york
york and
and london
carroll j
five reasons
reasons for
for scenariobased
scenariobased design
with computers
chartier r
foucaults chiasmus
chiasmus authorship
authorship between
between science
science and
literature in
in the
the seventeenth
seventeenth and
and eighteenth
eighteenth centuries
in scientific
authorship credit
credit and
and intellectual
intellectual property
property in
in science
science m
biagoli and
galison eds
routledge new
new york
york and
and london
london chap
coney m
and chatfield
chatfield c
rethinking the
the authorreader
relationship in
in computer
computer documentation
acm sigdoc
sigdoc asterisk
asterisk journal
journal of
computer documentation
elliott m
and scacchi
scacchi w
mobilization of
of software
software developers
developers the
free software
software movement
information technology
technology and
and people
erickson t
design as
as storytelling
interactions jul
doi hyperlink
hyperlink httpdoi
foucault m
what is
is an
an author
author in
in language
language countermemory
bouchard and
and s
simon trans
ithaca new
new york
york cornell
university press
gallardovalencia r
and sim
sim s
planning and
and improvisation
in software
software processes
processes acm
acm crossroads
crossroads volume
grudin j
the west
west wing
wing fiction
fiction can
can serve
serve politics
journal of
of information
information systems
grudin j
and pruitt
pruitt j
personas participatory
participatory design
design and
product development
development an
an infrastructure
infrastructure for
for engagement
grudin j
interface an
an evolving
evolving concept
acm apr
doi hyperlink
gulliksen j
gransson b
boivie i
blomkvist s
persson j
and cajander
key principles
principles for
for usercentred
usercentred systems
systems design
behaviour information
information technology
haraway d
modestwitness secondmillennium
femalemanmeetsoncomouse feminism
feminism and
and technoscience
routledge chapman
holtzblatt k
personas and
and contextual
contextual design
retrieved august
jackson m
can artisans
artisans be
be scientific
scientific authors
authors the
the unique
unique case
case of
fraunhofers artisanal
artisanal optics
optics and
and the
the german
german republic
republic of
of letters
scientific authorship
authorship credit
credit and
and intellectual
intellectual property
property in
in science
science m
biagoli and
and p
galison eds
routledge new
new york
york and
and london
london chap
johansson m
and messeter
messeter j
presenting the
the user
user constructing
the persona
digital creativity
johns a
the ambivalence
ambivalence of
of authorship
authorship in
in early
early modern
modern natural
in scientific
scientific authorship
authorship credit
credit and
and intellectual
intellectual property
in science
science m
biagioli and
and p
galison eds
routledge uk
uk chap
kelty c
geeks social
social imaginaries
imaginaries and
and recursive
recursive publics
cultural anthropology
kyng m
users and
and computers
computers a
a contextual
contextual approach
approach to
to design
design of
computer artifacts
scandinavian journal
journal of
of information
information systems
latour b
science in
in action
action how
how to
to follow
follow scientists
scientists and
engineers through
through society
harvard university
university press
press cambridge
cambridge ma
lessig l
code and
and other
other laws
laws of
of cyberspace
cyberspace code
code v
v wiki
basic books
madsen k
and aiken
aiken p
experiences using
using cooperative
interactive storyboard
storyboard prototyping
acm jun
doi hyperlink
hyperlink httpdoi
muller m
and kuhn
kuhn s
participatory design
doi hyperlink
nieters j
ivaturi s
and ahmed
ahmed i
making personas
in chi
chi extended
extended abstracts
abstracts on
on human
human factors
factors in
in computing
systems san
san jose
jose ca
ca usa
usa april
april may
acm new
york ny
doi httpdoi
rogers y
exploring obstacles
obstacles integrating
integrating cscw
cscw in
in evolving
in proceedings
proceedings of
of the
the acm
acm conference
conference on
on computer
supported cooperative
cooperative work
work chapel
chapel hill
hill north
north carolina
carolina united
united states
acm press
press new
new york
york ny
rheinberger h
discourses of
of circumstance
circumstance a
a note
note on
on the
the author
in science
in scientific
scientific authorship
authorship credit
credit and
and intellectual
intellectual property
in science
science m
biagoli and
and p
galison eds
routledge new
new york
york and
london chap
shapin s
a social
social history
history of
of truth
truth civility
civility and
and science
science in
seventeenthcentury england
university of
of chicago
chicago press
press chicago
suchman l
plans and
and situated
situated actions
actions the
the problem
problem of
humanmachine communication
cambridge university
university press
vredenburg k
mao j
smith p
and carey
carey t
a survey
survey of
usercentered design
design practice
in proceedings
proceedings of
of the
the sigchi
sigchi conference
on human
human factors
factors in
in computing
computing systems
systems changing
changing our
our world
world changing
ourselves minneapolis
minneapolis minnesota
minnesota usa
usa april
acm press
press new
new york
york ny
doi hyperlink
