understanding del
us tag
tag choice
choice using
using simulations
rick wash
emilee rader
school of
of information
university of
of michigan
school of
of information
university of
of michigan
group information
information management
management because
because it
it does
does not
not require
require that
that users
users try
try to
to conform
conform to
to a
a controlled
controlled vocabulary
or organization
organization scheme
understanding how
how users
users choose
choose tags
tags can
can help
help researchers
better understand
understand how
how tagging
tagging systems
systems can
can be
be used
used and
how to
to design
design better
better tagging
tagging systems
systems for
for the
the future
we developed
developed a
a simulation
simulation of
of del
us a
a popular
popular social
social bookmarking
bookmarking tool
tool that
that allowed
allowed us
us to
to simulate
simulate users
choosing tags
tags using
using one
one of
of four
four possible
possible strategies
strategies for
for tag
choice found
found in
in the
the literature
we then
then compared
compared the
resulting tag
tag choices
choices with
with empirical
empirical data
data retrieved
retrieved from
us to
to determine
determine which
which tag
tag choice
choice strategies
strategies would
result in
in choices
choices most
most similar
similar to
to those
those seen
seen in
in the
the real
we were
were able
able to
to rule
rule out
out three
three of
of the
the strategies
as unlikely
unlikely to
to be
be the
the primary
primary means
means by
by which
which tags
tags are
chosen on
on del
in this
this paper
paper we
we focus
focus on
on the
the social
social bookmarking
bookmarking website
website del
us as
as a
a case
case study
study of
of a
a collaborative
collaborative tagging
tagging system
system supporting
supporting both
both personal
personal and
and shared
shared information
information management
us is
is an
an online
online application
that allows
allows users
users to
to save
save and
and tag
tag their
their own
own web
web bookmarks
bookmarks so
so they
they are
are accessible
accessible from
from any
any networked
networked computer
us has
has recently
recently received
received attention
attention in
in the
research literature
literature as
as the
the canonical
canonical example
example of
of a
a collaborative
collaborative tagging
tagging system
system for
for information
information management
we are
are studying
studying how
how users
users choose
choose tags
tags and
and hope
hope to
to apply
apply this
this knowledge
knowledge to
to improve
improve information
information management
wash and
and rader
rader argue
argue that
that the
the usefulness
usefulness of
us depends
depends critically
critically on
on how
how users
users choose
choose tags
golder and
and huberman
huberman argue
argue that
that users
users tag
tag choices
are not
not random
random instead
instead consensus
consensus seems
seems to
to emerge
emerge for
which tags
tags best
best represent
represent a
a given
given web
web page
they show
that web
web pages
pages bookmarked
bookmarked in
in del
us demonstrate
demonstrate a
stable frequency
frequency distribution
distribution following
following a
a powerlaw
powerlaw pattern
pattern in
in which
which the
the same
same few
few tags
tags are
are chosen
chosen by
by many
users while
while most
most other
other tags
tags are
are selected
selected by
by only
only a
a few
the long
long tail
tail of
of the
the powerlaw
powerlaw distribution
distribution includes
includes hundreds
hundreds more
more tags
tags used
used by
by only
only one
one or
or two
two people
golder and
and huberman
huberman speculate
speculate that
that this
this pattern
pattern might
be due
due to
to users
users imitating
imitating each
each others
others tag
tag choices
choices in
in other
words when
when a
a user
user bookmarks
bookmarks a
a web
web page
page in
in del
their tag
tag choices
choices might
might be
be influenced
influenced by
by tags
tags that
that had
been previously
previously applied
applied to
to that
that web
web page
page by
by other
other users
information organization
tagging del
us social
social bookmarking
bookmarking simulation
usercontributed metadata
metadata also
also known
known as
as tagging
tagging is
is increasingly
increasingly receiving
receiving attention
attention as
as a
a tool
tool for
for digital
digital information
information management
collaborative tagging
tagging systems
systems such
as del
us and
and citeulike
org publicly
publicly expose
expose individual
individual users
users associations
associations between
between content
content items
items and
and tags
thereby providing
providing visibility
visibility into
into words
words others
others have
have used
to tag
tag similar
similar items
grudin suggests
suggests that
that collaborative
collaborative tagging
tagging can
can be
be a
a loweffort
loweffort solution
solution for
for shared
shared or
however it
it is
is reasonable
reasonable to
to assume
assume that
that there
there might
might be
other sources
sources of
of influence
influence on
on users
users tag
tag choices
choices having
to do
do with
with personal
personal information
information management
management goals
example a
a user
user interested
interested in
in del
us only
only for
for organizing
organizing and
and refinding
refinding their
their own
own bookmarks
bookmarks might
might strive
strive for
consistency within
within their
their own
own controlled
controlled vocabulary
vocabulary to
maintain a
a shorter
shorter list
list of
of tags
or users
users might
might desire
to expend
expend as
as little
little effort
effort as
as possible
possible when
when choosing
choosing tags
copyright and
and disclaimer
disclaimer information
the copyright
copyright of
of this
this document
document remains
remains with
with the
the authors
authors andor
andor their
by submitting
submitting their
their papers
papers to
to the
the ischools
ischools conference
web site
site the
the authors
authors hereby
hereby grant
grant a
a license
license for
for the
the ischools
ischools to
to post
post and
disseminate their
their papers
papers on
on this
this site
site and
and on
on a
a cd
contact the
the authors
directly for
for any
any use
use outside
outside of
of downloading
downloading and
and referencing
referencing this
this paper
neither the
the ischools
ischools nor
nor any
any of
of its
its associated
associated universities
universities endorse
endorse this
the authors
authors are
are solely
solely responsible
responsible for
for their
their papers
papers content
thanks to
to the
the association
association for
for computing
computing machinery
machinery for
for permission
permission to
adapt and
and use
use their
their template
template for
for the
the ischools
ischools conference
and simply
simply select
select the
the tags
tags the
the system
system recommends
recommends when
they create
create a
a new
new bookmark
produced by
by our
our four
four simulated
simulated strategies
strategies and
and the
the actual
actual frequency
frequency distribution
distribution of
of tags
tags on
on a
a random
random sample
sample of
websites bookmarked
bookmarked in
in del
us henceforth
henceforth called
called the
empirical distribution
in this
this way
way we
we hoped
hoped to
to identify
which strategies
strategies were
were capable
capable of
of producing
producing distributions
similar to
to the
the empirical
empirical distribution
distribution and
and which
which were
were not
strategies producing
producing similar
similar distributions
distributions can
can be
be considered
considered plausible
plausible in
in the
the sense
sense that
that they
they could
could possibly
possibly have
given rise
rise to
to the
the empirical
empirical distribution
strategies producing
producing distributions
distributions that
that are
are dramatically
dramatically different
different from
the empirical
empirical distribution
distribution can
can be
be ruled
ruled out
out as
as unlikely
unlikely to
have been
been used
used widely
widely on
on del
the research
research literature
literature contains
contains multiple
multiple competing
competing explanations
explanations for
for the
the patterns
patterns of
of tags
tags that
that appear
appear on
all of
of these
these explanations
explanations initially
initially seem
seem like
reasonable explanations
explanations of
of the
the way
way that
that del
us users
choose tags
but they
they cannot
cannot all
all be
be right
right simultaneously
it would
would be
be nice
nice to
to actually
actually have
have collections
collections of
of real
real people
specifically use
use one
one or
or more
more of
of the
the strategies
strategies suggested
suggested by
the literature
literature on
on delicious
we could
could then
then see
see if
if those
tag choices
choices resulted
resulted in
in patterns
patterns of
of tags
tags similar
similar to
to those
found on
on del
unfortunately this
this technique
technique would
be prohibitively
prohibitively costly
instead we
we developed
developed a
a computational
computational simulation
simulation of
of users
users doing
doing this
this simulation
allows us
us to
to control
control exactly
exactly what
what strategy
strategy the
the simulated
users used
used to
to choose
choose tags
such a
a simulation
simulation cannot
cannot tell
us which
which strategy
strategy the
the real
real users
users of
of del
us used
used it
it can
only tell
tell us
us which
which strategies
strategies are
are likely
likely to
to result
result in
in patterns
of tags
tags that
that are
are similar
similar to
to those
those observed
observed on
on del
in other
other words
words the
the simulation
simulation cannot
cannot confidently
confidently identify
identify how
how users
users chose
chose tags
tags but
but it
it can
can be
be used
used to
to rule
rule out
explanations that
that are
are unlikely
unlikely to
to generate
generate the
the observed
patterns of
of tags
we began
began by
by downloading
downloading and
and parsing
parsing the
the entire
entire bookmark
bookmark and
and tag
tag histories
histories for
for approximately
approximately different
websites in
in del
we generated
generated the
the tag
tag frequency
distribution for
for a
a randomly
randomly selected
selected subset
subset of
of those
those websites
websites and
and compared
compared it
it against
against seven
seven known
known distribution
types powerlaw
powerlaw lognormal
lognormal geometric
geometric etc
to determine
determine the
the best
best fit
knowing the
the family
family of
of distributions
distributions to
which the
the del
us tag
tag frequency
frequency distribution
distribution belongs
allowed us
us to
to statistically
statistically determine
determine whether
whether the
the distributions
distributions produced
produced by
by our
our simulation
simulation were
were of
of the
the same
same type
next we
we developed
developed a
a simulation
simulation of
of users
users tag
tag choices
details of
of which
which will
will be
be provided
provided later
later in
in the
the paper
simulation was
was instructed
instructed to
to follow
follow each
each one
one of
of the
the four
strategies listed
listed above
above in
in turn
for each
each strategy
different websites
websites were
were simulated
simulated for
for each
each website
website users
simulated tag
tag selections
selections were
were recorded
recorded and
and statistically
compared with
with the
the empirical
empirical distribution
we ran
ran the
the simulation
simulation for
for four
four different
different tag
tag selection
strategies and
and compared
compared the
the results
results with
with the
the tag
tag frequency
frequency distribution
distribution observed
observed on
on del
we then
then used
statistical techniques
techniques to
to determine
determine whether
whether the
the simulated
tag selection
selection strategies
strategies were
were consistent
consistent with
with the
the empirically
empirically observed
observed data
we tested
tested the
the following
following strategies
we were
were primarily
primarily interested
interested in
in looking
looking at
at two
two specific
patterns of
of tags
first as
as many
many people
people have
have pointed
pointed out
the tags
tags associated
associated with
with a
a specific
specific website
website in
in del
tend to
to follow
follow a
a powerlaw
powerlaw distribution
tag choice
strategies that
that do
do not
not result
result in
in a
a powerlawshaped
powerlawshaped distribution
distribution of
of tags
tags are
are unlikely
unlikely to
to have
have been
been used
used by
by the
the users
imitation users
users might
might imitate
imitate previous
previous users
users tag
tag of
of del
this powerlaw
powerlaw distribution
distribution seems
seems to
to be
be an
this was
was described
described by
by golder
golder and
and huber
huber important
important property
property of
of tags
tags on
on del
second we
have looked
looked at
at the
the average
average interuser
interuser agreement
agreement between
users who
who bookmark
bookmark the
the same
same website
furnas et
et al
userbased users
users might
might favor
favor tags
tags that
that they
they had
had used
used have
have found
found that
that typically
typically two
two individuals
individuals will
will choose
choose the
this was
was described
described by
by wash
wash and
and rader
rader same
same word
word to
to describe
describe an
an object
object less
less than
than of
of the
the time
on del
us this
this number
number is
is closer
closer to
to of
of the
the time
tag choice
choice strategies
strategies that
that result
result in
in many
many users
users agreeing
recommended users
users might
might prefer
prefer to
to click
click on
on the
the tags
with each
each other
other are
are also
also unlikely
unlikely to
to have
have been
been used
used on
that are
are programatically
programatically recommended
recommended by
by del
interuser agreement
agreement is
is a
a metric
metric that
that is
is sufficiently
sufficiently different
different than
than the
the powerlaw
powerlaw distribution
distribution of
of tags
the latter
latter three
three are
are the
the same
same strategies
strategies studied
studied in
in a
a large
large and
and is
is a
a good
good complementary
complementary metric
metric for
for characterizing
characterizing a
set of
of tag
tag choices
scale statistical
statistical analysis
analysis by
by rader
rader and
and wash
zipf s
s law
law zipfs
zipfs law
law states
states that
that word
word frequency
frequency in
most written
written works
works follows
follows a
a powerlaw
powerlaw distribution
therefore del
us users
users might
might naturally
naturally choose
their words
words from
from a
a powerlaw
powerlaw distribution
in this
this paper
paper we
we first
first report
report the
the results
results from
from our
our analysis
of the
the empirical
empirical data
data downloaded
downloaded from
from del
the goal
goal of
of the
the research
research described
described in
in this
this paper
paper was
was to
to detect
detect similarities
similarities between
between the
the tag
tag frequency
frequency distributions
results from
from this
this analysis
analysis were
were used
used in
in the
the simulation
simulation to
make the
the simulation
simulation more
more realistic
we then
then describe
describe the
simulation in
in detail
detail and
and report
report the
the results
results of
of the
the analysis
comparing the
the empirical
empirical and
and simulated
simulated data
we conclude
conclude with
with a
a discussion
discussion of
of the
the implications
implications of
of this
this work
normal distribution
distribution better
better than
than the
the other
other distributions
we tested
the fitted
fitted distributions
distributions had
had a
a mean
mean log
log value
and a
a standard
standard deviation
deviation log
log value
value of
on average
average a
a user
user of
of del
us will
will choose
with a
a standard
standard deviation
deviation of
when bookmarking
bookmarking a
we used
used this
this data
data to
to estimate
estimate two
two distributions
distributions the
distribution of
of tag
tag frequency
frequency for
for a
a given
given website
website bookmarked
bookmarked how
how frequently
frequently was
was each
each tag
tag applied
applied to
to it
it and
the number
number of
of tags
tags chosen
chosen by
by a
a user
user when
when a
a user
is bookmarking
bookmarking a
a website
website how
how many
many tags
tags will
will he
he or
or she
interuser agreement
agreement it
it has
has long
long been
been accepted
accepted that
people use
use language
language imprecisely
imprecisely and
and meaning
meaning is
is negotiated
negotiated on
on the
the fly
fly during
during conversation
this imprecision
is evident
evident not
not only
only in
in communication
communication but
but also
also when
when people
people are
are asked
asked to
to create
create keywords
keywords for
for recipes
recipes and
and names
names for
common editing
editing operations
operations and
and when
when usergenerated
index terms
terms are
are compared
compared with
with library
library of
of congress
congress subject
subject headings
in fact
fact the
the probability
probability that
that two
two people
will generate
generate the
the same
same label
label for
for the
the same
same object
object called
the vocabulary
vocabulary problem
problem is
is widely
widely held
held to
to be
be less
less than
when a
a user
user wants
wants to
to take
take advantage
advantage of
of the
collective properties
properties of
of social
social bookmarking
bookmarking by
by browsing
or searching
searching on
on tags
tags the
the vocabulary
vocabulary problem
problem becomes
if users
users are
are unlikely
unlikely to
to choose
choose the
the same
same tags
tags to
represent the
the same
same topics
topics such
such diversity
diversity would
would decrease
search precision
when a
a given
given tag
tag is
is applied
applied to
to bookmarks
bookmarks in
in an
an inconsistent
inconsistent manner
manner by
by many
many users
users more
variability exists
exists in
in the
the content
content returned
returned when
when a
a user
searches with
with that
that tag
the desired
desired bookmark
bookmark may
may be
returned but
but there
there would
would be
be too
too much
much other
other noise
noise in
the results
results for
for it
it to
to be
be noticed
we fit
fit the
the data
data to
to multiple
multiple families
families of
of distributions
distributions and
see which
which distribution
distribution fits
fits best
best here
here is
is a
a statistical
statistical determination
we fit
fit the
the data
data from
from each
each site
site to
seven different
different discrete
discrete probability
probability distribution
distribution families
discrete powerlaw
powerlaw negative
negative binomial
binomial binomial
binomial discrete
lognormal discrete
discrete exponential
exponential poisson
poisson and
and geometric
estimating parameters
parameters with
with maximum
maximum likelihood
likelihood estimation
we then
then used
used a
a nonnested
nonnested kolmogorovsmirnov
test to
to conduct
conduct pairwise
pairwise comparisons
comparisons between
between these
these distributions
to measure
measure the
the extent
extent of
of the
the vocabulary
vocabulary problem
problem on
us we
we calculated
calculated the
the average
average interuser
interuser agreement
for a
a sample
sample of
of users
users from
from each
each of
of the
the websites
websites that
we had
had full
full user
user data
data for
on average
average users
users who
who bookmarked
bookmarked these
these websites
websites chose
chose the
the same
same tag
tag for
for the
the website
only of
of the
the time
this percentage
percentage is
is low
low indicating
indicating a
a fair
fair bit
bit of
of disagreement
disagreement between
between users
users though
it is
is higher
higher than
than the
the reported
reported by
by for
for their
their textediting
textediting operations
operations dataset
figure shows
shows a
a histogram
of the
the interuser
interuser agreement
agreement values
values for
for the
the websites
analysis of
of empirical
empirical data
over two
two weeks
weeks in
in january
january we
we downloaded
downloaded the
the entire
entire bookmark
bookmark and
and tag
tag history
history for
for approximately
different webpages
webpages in
in del
the webpages
webpages were
were chosen
chosen by
by periodically
periodically sampling
sampling the
the recently
recently posted
posted and
popular del
us pages
we randomly
randomly chose
chose webpages
webpages from
from our
our sample
sample that
that had
had been
been bookmarked
bookmarked by
by at
least users
then in
in june
june we
we downloaded
downloaded the
complete public
public bookmark
bookmark histories
histories for
for all
all of
of the
the approximately
approximately users
users who
who had
had ever
ever bookmarked
bookmarked any
any of
these webpages
in other
other words
words our
our dataset
dataset contains
the complete
complete tag
tag histories
histories for
for webpages
webpages bookmarked
in del
us as
as well
well as
as tag
tag histories
histories for
for all
all users
users who
who ever
bookmarked any
any of
of those
those webpages
the discrete
discrete powerlaw
powerlaw distribution
distribution fit
fit the
the empirically
empirically observed
observed tag
tag distributions
distributions better
better than
than any
any of
of the
the other
distributions we
we tested
the fitted
fitted distribution
distribution had
had an
average exponent
exponent of
this is
is a
a rather
rather low
exponent for
for a
a powerlaw
powerlaw distribution
distribution and
and indicates
indicates that
the long
long tail
tail of
of tags
tags is
is very
very long
long and
and heavy
this low
low exponent
exponent also
also has
has another
another important
important implication
explains that
that powerlaw
powerlaw distributions
distributions with
with an
an exponent
exponent less
less than
than have
have an
an infinite
infinite or
or undefined
undefined mean
therefore estimates
estimates of
of a
a mean
mean or
or average
average tag
tag are
are undefined
undefined and
and any
any inferential
inferential statistics
statistics based
based on
on the
the mean
of the
the tag
tag distribution
distribution cannot
cannot be
be used
simulating tag
tag choices
to compare
compare the
the four
four tag
tag choice
choice strategies
strategies we
we simulated
websites for
for each
each of
of the
the four
four strategies
each of
the websites
websites was
was paired
paired with
with one
one of
of real
real websites
websites randomly
randomly selected
selected from
from our
our sample
sample downloaded
downloaded from
us and
and the
the number
number of
of users
users for
for each
each simulated
website was
was chosen
chosen to
to match
match the
the real
real website
each simulated
simulated website
website was
was assigned
assigned to
to have
have the
the same
number of
of users
users as
as its
its matched
matched real
real website
website and
and each
simulated user
user was
was matched
matched with
with a
a real
real user
user who
who bookmarked
bookmarked that
that website
in essence
essence we
we are
are simulating
simulating what
would happen
happen if
if the
the same
same set
set of
of users
users bookmarked
bookmarked the
the real
the number
number of
of tags
tags chosen
chosen by
by a
a user
user fit
fit a
a discrete
discrete log
interuser agreement
agreement for
for del
us data
this was
was done
done because
because any
any single
single users
users tags
cannot repeat
repeat and
and this
this lack
lack of
of repetition
repetition i
without replacement
replacement forces
forces the
the user
user to
to choose
choose more
more tags
in the
the tail
tail of
of the
the distribution
distribution than
than they
they would
would if
if tag
choices were
were truly
truly independent
if i
i choose
choose three
three tags
they cannot
cannot all
all be
be the
the most
most popular
popular tag
through experimentation
experimentation we
we found
found that
that having
having users
users choose
choose tags
tags from
a powerlaw
powerlaw distribution
distribution with
with an
an alpha
alpha about
to yield
yield a
a sitewide
sitewide powerlaw
powerlaw distribution
distribution for
for tags
tags that
approximately match
match the
the observed
observed distributions
percent of
of total
each number
number from
from this
this distribution
distribution is
is then
then mapped
mapped onto
a specific
specific tag
tag according
according to
to its
its rank
rank in
in the
the frequency
frequency distribution
the tags
tags from
from the
the matched
matched real
real site
site are
are ordered
from mostfrequently
mostfrequently used
used to
to leastfrequently
leastfrequently used
used with
ties being
being broken
broken randomly
a from
from the
the random
random number
generator is
is then
then mapped
mapped onto
onto the
the mostfrequentlyused
tag onto
onto the
the second
second most
most frequently
frequently used
used tag
tag and
and so
any numbers
numbers larger
larger than
than the
the number
number of
of tags
tags on
on the
matched site
site are
are left
left as
as numbers
interuser agreement
figure histogram
histogram of
of the
the average
average interuser
interuser agreement
agreement for
for each
each user
user the
the specific
specific tags
tags that
that they
they choose
choose will
will depend
depend on
on which
which of
of the
the four
four strategies
strategies they
they are
are assigned
assigned to
for websites
websites bookmarked
bookmarked on
on del
the only
only difference
difference between
between these
these four
four strategies
strategies is
in specific
specific tag
tag choice
choice all
all other
other decisions
decisions number
number of
of users
website but
but chose
chose their
their tags
tags according
according to
to one
one of
of our
our four
four number
number of
of tags
tags per
per user
user etc
are identical
hypothesized strategies
strategies and
and bookmarked
bookmarked it
it in
in a
a random
to simulate
simulate a
a user
user choosing
choosing tags
tags for
for that
that website
two choices
choices have
have to
to be
be made
first the
the simulator
simulator chooses
how many
many tags
tags that
that user
user will
will apply
apply to
to the
the website
second the
the simulator
simulator chooses
chooses which
which specific
specific tags
tags would
would be
zipf s
s law
law the
the simplest
simplest strategy
strategy is
is to
to follow
follow zipfs
law and
and choose
choose tags
tags directly
directly from
from the
the base
base powerlaw
the simulator
simulator continually
continually chooses
chooses random
numbers from
from the
the base
base powerlaw
powerlaw distribution
distribution until
until it
it has
the required
required number
number of
of unique
unique numbers
these numbers
are then
then mapped
mapped onto
onto tags
tags as
as described
described above
as we
we found
found above
above for
for del
us the
the number
number of
of tags
tags applied
applied by
by a
a user
user tends
tends to
to be
be distributed
distributed according
according to
to a
a discrete
discrete log
log normal
normal distribution
for each
each simulated
simulated website
the simulation
simulation randomly
randomly chose
chose a
a set
set of
of parameters
parameters mean
log and
and standard
standard deviation
deviation of
of the
the log
log for
for a
a discrete
discrete log
normal probability
probability distribution
distribution to
to match
match the
the distribution
of parameter
parameter values
values we
we found
found empirically
empirically on
on del
once a
a set
set of
of parameters
parameters was
was chosen
chosen this
this specifies
specifies an
an exact
exact probability
probability distribution
for each
each simulated
simulated user
user the
simulator would
would then
then choose
choose a
a random
random number
number from
from this
probability distribution
distribution and
and that
that number
number would
would be
be the
number of
of tags
tags that
that simulated
simulated user
user would
would choose
imitation for
for users
users to
to imitate
imitate previous
previous users
users tag
choices it
it is
is necessary
necessary for
for those
those previous
previous users
users to
to exist
the first
first few
few users
users who
who bookmark
bookmark a
a website
website will
have no
no one
one to
to imitate
to handle
handle this
this the
the first
first users
will draw
draw as
as described
described above
above for
for zipfs
zipfs law
law and
and serve
serve as
all users
users after
after the
the first
first who
who use
use this
this strategy
strategy will
will choose
choose a
a tag
tag from
from the
the current
current empirical
empirical distribution
distribution of
of tags
tags for
for his
his simulated
simulated website
this means
means that
if there
there are
are two
two tags
tags a
a and
and b
b and
and a
a has
has been
been used
twice previously
previously and
and b
b only
only once
once then
then tag
tag a
a is
is chosen
with probability
probability and
and tag
tag b
b is
is chosen
chosen with
with probability
however to
to ensure
ensure growth
growth of
of the
the vocabulary
vocabulary beyond
used by
by the
the initial
initial seeders
seeders each
each tag
tag choice
choice has
has a
we found
found that
that that
that tags
tags applied
applied to
to a
a given
given website
website on
of choosing
choosing a
a new
new previously
previously unused
unused tag
us are
are distributed
distributed according
according to
to a
a discrete
discrete powerthis
was chosen
chosen to
to match
match the
the average
average empirlaw
empirlaw distribution
in a
a manner
manner similar
similar to
to that
that used
used for
for the
from the
the del
us data
number of
of tags
tags the
the simulator
simulator chooses
chooses a
a parameter
parameter alaverage
from del
us has
has a
a new
pha for
for a
a discrete
discrete powerlaw
powerlaw distribution
this distributag
tion then
then will
will serve
serve as
as the
the base
base distribution
distribution that
that specific
tags are
are drawn
drawn from
the alpha
alpha parameter
parameter is
is chosen
chosen not
to directly
directly match
match the
the value
value observed
observed above
but to
userbased not
not all
all users
users will
will want
want to
to apply
apply tags
tags that
they have
have used
used before
as such
such when
when simulating
simulating the
the table
table average
average difference
difference between
between simulated
simulated poweruserbased
poweruserbased strategy
strategy the
the simulated
simulated users
users had
had a
a law
law exponent
exponent and
and real
real powerlaw
powerlaw exponent
exponent and
and averchance
averchance of
of choosing
choosing tags
tags according
according to
to zipfs
zipfs law
law and
and of
of age
age kolmogorovsmirnov
kolmogorovsmirnov goodnessoffit
goodnessoffit statistic
choosing tags
tags they
they had
had used
used before
when choosing
choosing tags
they had
had used
used before
before the
the simulator
simulator computes
computes the
the overlap
zipfs law
set intersection
intersection between
between the
the tags
tags the
the user
user had
had ever
ever used
and the
the tags
tags that
that were
were ever
ever applied
applied to
to the
the matched
matched site
it then
then randomly
randomly chooses
chooses among
among the
the tags
tags in
in this
this overlap
if that
that is
is not
not enough
enough tags
tags then
then additional
additional tags
tags are
chosen randomly
randomly from
from the
the base
base powerlaw
powerlaw distribution
recommended del
us does
does not
not make
make their
their algorithm
algorithm for
for choosing
choosing which
which tags
tags to
to recommend
recommend public
such we
we could
could not
not directly
directly simulate
simulate users
users choosing
choosing from
uss recommended
recommended tags
we did
did however
however create
create a
simple approximation
we proposed
proposed that
that the
the tagging
tagging system
system could
could simply
simply recommend
recommend the
the n
n most
most popular
popular tags
tags for
that website
then users
users could
could randomly
randomly choose
choose among
those n
n tags
the probability
probability of
of tag
tag b
this is
is a
a very
very high
high information
requirement for
for users
users they
they must
must know
know the
the exact
exact proportions
proportions of
of existing
existing tags
tags to
to choose
choose appropriately
does not
not make
make this
this information
information easily
easily available
available however
we assume
assume this
this knowledge
knowledge for
for our
our simulations
simulations with
with the
imitate strategy
to compare
compare the
the four
four tag
tag choice
choice strategies
strategies we
we simulated
websites for
for each
each of
of the
the four
four strategies
each of
of the
if del
uss recommendation
recommendation algorithm
algorithm is
is solely
solely based
based websites
websites was
was paired
paired with
with one
one of
of real
real websites
websites and
on the
the frequency
frequency of
of applying
applying tags
tags to
to that
that website
website then
then the
the number
number of
of users
users was
was chosen
chosen to
to match
match the
the real
real website
this approximation
approximation is
is a
a reasonable
reasonable proxy
proxy for
for del
uss figure
figure shows
shows the
the tag
tag distribution
distribution on
on a
a loglog
loglog plot
plot for
recommendation algorithm
if the
the real
real algorithm
algorithm includes
includes all
all four
four of
of the
the strategies
strategies on
on one
one of
of these
these websites
other data
data such
such as
as the
the tags
tags a
a user
user has
has used
used or
or the
the popu
popu on
on the
the graph
graph is
is the
the empirically
empirically observed
observed tag
tag distribution
larity of
of tags
tags across
across the
the site
site then
then this
this simulated
simulated strategy
strategy from
from the
the paired
paired website
the nonpowerlaw
nonpowerlaw nature
nature of
of the
will not
not be
be a
a good
good proxy
proxy for
for the
the del
us algorithm
recommended strategy
strategy stands
stands out
out with
with a
a small
small number
of roughly
roughly equally
equally likely
likely tags
tags the
the recommended
recommended tags
tags and
to simulate
simulate users
users choosing
choosing tags
tags with
with the
the recommended
recommended then
then a
a sharp
sharp drop
drop in
in probability
probability for
for the
the other
other tags
strategy we
we first
first create
create seeders
seeders in
in the
the same
same way
way we
did for
for the
the imitation
imitation strategy
strategy simulation
all of
of the
the re
re for
for each
each simulated
simulated website
website we
we fit
fit the
the simulated
simulated tag
tag distrimaining
distrimaining users
users then
then are
are simulated
simulated to
to have
have been
been presented
presented bution
bution to
to a
a discrete
discrete powerlaw
powerlaw distribution
we used
used this
with n
n recommended
recommended tags
tags the
the most
most popular
popular tags
tags fit
fit for
for two
two comparisons
first we
we computed
computed the
the difference
at that
that point
point and
and then
then randomly
randomly choose
choose between
between these
these between
between the
the powerlaw
powerlaw exponent
exponent in
in the
the simulated
simulated distriburecommended
distriburecommended tags
if they
they need
need to
to apply
apply more
more than
than tion
tion and
and the
the exponent
exponent in
in the
the real
real distribution
the first
tags then
then the
the remaining
remaining tags
tags are
are chosen
chosen randomly
randomly from
from column
column delta
delta of
of table
table shows
shows the
the average
average difference
difference in
the base
base powerlaw
powerlaw distribution
second we
we conducted
conducted a
a kolmogorovsmirnov
goodnessoffit test
test to
to see
see how
how well
well the
the simulated
simulated distribution
distribution fit
fit a
a powerlaw
a ks
ks statistic
statistic of
of means
means that
that the
simulation results
distribution is
is identical
identical to
to a
a powerlaw
powerlaw and
and higher
higher numone
numone of
of the
the benefits
benefits of
of simulation
simulation is
is that
that the
the development
development bers
bers indicate
indicate greater
greater deviation
deviation from
from a
a powerlaw
process forced
forced us
us to
to be
be very
very explicit
explicit about
about what
what informa
informa second
second column
column ks
ks of
of table
table indicates
indicates the
the average
average ks
tion users
users would
would need
need to
to follow
follow a
a hypothesized
hypothesized strategy
statistic for
for each
each of
of the
the four
four strategies
as a
a comparison
golder and
and huberman
huberman suggest
suggest that
that the
the powerlaw
powerlaw dis
dis the
the empirical
empirical data
data from
from del
us fits
fits a
a powerlaw
powerlaw with
with an
tribution of
of tags
tags for
for a
a given
given website
website could
could arise
arise from
from users
users average
average ks
ks statistic
statistic of
neither the
the imitation
imitation nor
intentionally imitating
imitating previous
previous users
users tag
tag choices
they recommended
recommended strategies
strategies fit
fit a
a powerlaw
powerlaw very
very well
cite the
the networks
networks literature
literature for
for evidence
evidence that
that pow
pow distributions
distributions from
from zipf
zipf s
s law
law and
and userbased
userbased strateerlaw
strateerlaw distributions
distributions can
can arise
arise from
from such
such pathdependent
pathdependent gies
gies fit
fit as
as well
well as
as the
the real
real data
data from
from del
when trying
trying to
to replicate
replicate these
these decisions
decisions for
for our
simulation we
we found
found that
that this
this only
only works
works if
if a
a user
user chooses
chooses interuser
interuser agreement
agreement in
in addition
addition to
to fitting
fitting the
the tag
tags from
from the
the empirical
empirical distribution
distribution at
at the
the time
time of
of deci
deci distribution
distribution we
we also
also calculated
calculated the
the average
average interuser
this means
means if
if tag
tag a
a has
has been
been used
used twice
twice as
as much
much agreement
agreement between
between users
users of
of each
each of
of the
the simulated
as tag
tag b
b then
then tag
tag a
a need
need to
to be
be chosen
chosen with
with twice
twice websites
figure shows
shows the
the distribution
distribution of
of average
average inter
real world
zipfs law
tag index
figure tag
tag distributions
distributions for
for four
four simulated
simulated runs
runs matched
matched with
with a
a real
real empiricallyobserved
empiricallyobserved tag
tag distribution
distribution on
on a
loglog scale
interuser agreement
agreement by
by strategy
zipfs law
percent of
of total
interuser agreement
figure histograms
histograms of
of the
the average
average interuser
interuser agreement
agreement for
for the
the simulated
simulated websites
there is
is one
one histogram
histogram for
for each
tagging strategy
strategy used
notice that
that two
two strategies
strategies recommended
recommended and
and zipf
zipf s
s law
law have
have a
a higher
higher mean
mean than
than the
other two
the recommended
recommended tags
tags our
our simulations
simulations suggest
suggest that
that they
do so
so more
more intentionally
intentionally than
than just
just clicking
clicking a
a few
few of
of the
recommended tags
table average
average interuser
interuser agreement
agreement for
for each
each of
of the
four simulated
simulated tagging
tagging strategies
mean iua
real world
zipfs law
the hypothesis
hypothesis that
that users
users choose
choose tags
tags by
by imitating
imitating other
users with
with previous
previous tag
tag choices
choices influencing
influencing the
the current
choice is
is also
also unlikely
unlikely to
to be
be what
what del
us users
users are
are really
really doing
the information
information requirements
requirements that
that would
would be
necessary for
for users
users to
to choose
choose tags
tags this
this way
way are
are large
large users
need to
to know
know both
both which
which words
words were
were previously
previously applied
applied as
tags and
and how
how frequently
frequently they
they were
were applied
applied to
to use
use this
this hyuser
hyuser agreements
agreements for
for each
each of
of the
the four
four strategies
table pothesized
pothesized strategy
but even
even if
if users
users could
could easily
easily get
get the
provides the
the mean
mean interuser
interuser agreement
agreement value
value for
for each
each of
of proper
proper information
information the
the resulting
resulting tag
tag distributions
distributions from
the four
four strategies
strategies along
along with
with their
their standard
standard deviation
deviation the
the simulations
simulations are
are skewed
skewed and
and have
have a
a shorter
shorter tail
tail than
and a
a comparison
comparison point
point with
with the
the realworld
realworld data
data from
from the
the tag
tag distributions
distributions we
we observed
observed on
on del
this sugdel
the mean
mean interuser
interuser agreement
agreement for
for the
the user
user gests
gests that
that users
users are
are driven
driven by
by something
something more
more than
than just
based strategy
strategy and
and the
the imitation
imitation strategy
strategy are
are statisti
statisti imitating
imitating past
past users
cally indistinguishable
all other
other pairwise
pairwise comparisons
between interuser
interuser agreement
agreement values
values are
are statistically
statistically sig
sig we
we also
also believe
believe that
that the
the zipfs
zipfs law
law hypothesis
hypothesis is
is unlikely
nificant at
at the
the level
as it
it results
results in
in dramatically
dramatically higher
higher interuser
interuser agreement
than we
we observed
observed on
on del
this high
high interuser
our simulations
simulations resulted
resulted in
in users
users agreeing
agreeing with
with each
each other
other agreement
agreement is
is because
because every
every user
user who
who bookmarks
bookmarks a
a website
much more
more often
often when
when using
using the
the zipf
zipf s
s law
law strategy
strategy or
or with
with this
this strategy
strategy is
is choosing
choosing tags
tags from
from the
the same
same powerthe
powerthe recommended
recommended strategy
this indicates
indicates to
to us
us that
that law
law distribution
distribution the
the tag
tag that
that is
is most
most likely
likely to
to be
be chosen
these strategies
strategies are
are unlikely
unlikely to
to have
have been
been used
used by
by the
the is
is the
the same
same for
for all
all users
this suggests
suggests that
that users
users are
are not
users who
who bookmarked
bookmarked these
these websites
websites on
on del
all choosing
choosing tags
tags from
from the
the same
same distribution
distribution at
at the
the very
however the
the interuser
interuser agreement
agreement tests
tests cannot
cannot rule
rule out
out least
least they
they have
have individualized
individualized distributions
distributions of
of words
words to
either the
the userbased
userbased strategy
strategy or
or the
the imitation
imitation strategy
strategy choose
choose from
for tag
tag choices
choices because
because they
they resulted
resulted in
in similar
similar levels
levels of
interuser agreement
we cannot
cannot rule
rule out
out the
the userbased
userbased hypothesis
hypothesis based
based on
our simulations
we found
found that
that when
when our
our simulated
simulated users
choose tags
tags using
using the
the userbased
userbased strategy
strategy the
the resulting
tag distribution
distribution is
is as
as close
close to
to a
a powerlaw
powerlaw distribution
we compared
compared four
four possible
possible strategies
strategies that
that users
users might
might use
use as
as our
our empirical
empirical data
data from
from del
us and
and the
the interuser
to choose
choose tags
tags on
on del
our simulations
simulations indicate
indicate agreement
agreement is
is approximately
approximately similar
similar to
to the
the level
level of
of interthat
interthat choosing
choosing the
the recommended
recommended tags
tags would
would result
result in
in a
a user
user agreement
agreement in
in our
our sample
sample of
of del
skewed distribution
distribution that
that fits
fits a
a powerlaw
powerlaw distribution
distribution less
less tags
tags from
from the
the users
users set
set of
of tags
tags results
results in
in a
a similar
similar level
than the
the empirically
empirically observed
observed distribution
choosing the
the of
of interuser
interuser agreement
agreement and
and a
a powerlaw
powerlaw tag
tag distribution
recommended tags
tags will
will also
also cause
cause higher
higher levels
levels of
of inter
inter this
this suggests
suggests that
that each
each user
user has
has his
his or
or her
her own
own way
way of
user agreement
agreement than
than are
are empirically
empirically observed
both of
of choosing
choosing tags
tags and
and that
that individual
individual and
and idiosyncratic
idiosyncratic way
these findings
findings are
are a
a direct
direct result
result of
of the
the fact
fact that
that in
in our
our of
of choosing
choosing tags
tags is
is a
a major
major influence
influence on
on tag
tag choices
howsimulation users
users choose
choose uniformly
uniformly at
at random
random among
among the
the ever
ever this
this research
research is
is not
not able
able to
to distinguish
distinguish what
what some
recommended tags
they do
do this
this because
because they
they have
have no
no of
of the
the different
different idiosyncratic
idiosyncratic strategies
strategies are
it is
is clear
better way
way of
of determining
determining which
which recommended
recommended tags
tags are
are though
though that
that future
future systems
systems that
that support
support collaborative
on del
us it
it is
is unclear
unclear how
how users
users choose
choose tagging
tagging will
will need
need to
to be
be sufficiently
sufficiently flexible
flexible to
to allow
allow each
among the
the tags
tags that
that del
us recommends
if they
they just
just user
user to
to choose
choose their
their own
own way
way of
of determining
determining which
which tags
click a
a couple
couple of
of tags
tags then
then del
us would
would end
end up
up with
with to
to use
skewed tag
tag distributions
distributions and
and high
high interuser
interuser agreement
since we
we did
did not
not find
find that
that on
on del
us if
if users
users do
do utilize
utilize since
since this
this is
is a
a simulation
simulation study
study we
we can
can only
only compare
aggregate measures
measures of
of tag
tag choices
choices like
like the
the shape
shape of
of the
comparisons were
were done
done with
with a
a series
series of
of t
tests and
and used
used a
a bonferroni
bonferroni correction
correction to
to adjust
adjust the
the pvalues
pvalues for
for multiple
multiple tests
all re
re resulting
resulting tag
tag distribution
this study
study cannot
cannot look
look at
at indimaining
indimaining comparisions
comparisions were
were statistically
statistically significant
significant at
at the
level vidual
vidual tag
tag decisions
decisions to
to determine
determine which
which strategy
strategy was
was used
except the
the two
two the
the comparison
comparison between
between the
the real
real world
world data
data and
and the
the for
for that
that specific
specific tag
tag choice
choice as
as the
the same
same strategy
strategy might
might not
userbased strategy
strategy and
and the
the comparison
comparison between
between the
the real
real world
be used
used across
across all
all users
users or
or even
even all
all the
the tag
tag choices
choices of
of an
data and
and the
the imitation
imitation strategy
individual user
in another
another part
part of
of this
this project
project we
use a
a logistic
logistic regression
regression to
to attempt
attempt to
to determine
determine which
which of
these four
four strategies
strategies was
was in
in use
use for
for individual
individual tagging
tagging decisions
decisions on
on del
fortunately the
the results
results from
from that
work corroborate
corroborate the
the results
results here
furnas t
landauer l
gomez and
and s
statistical semantics
semantics analysis
analysis of
of the
the potential
potential performance
performance of
of keyword
keyword information
information systems
the bell
system technical
technical journal
golder and
and b
usage patterns
patterns of
collaborative tagging
tagging systems
journal of
of information
information science
enterprise knowledge
knowledge management
management and
emerging technologies
in hicss
hicss january
barabasi and
and r
emergence of
of scaling
in random
random networks
indexing and
and access
access for
for digital
digital libraries
and the
the internet
internet human
human database
database and
and domain
journal of
of the
the american
american society
society for
for information
information science
halpin v
robu and
and h
the complex
dynamics of
of collaborative
collaborative tagging
in www
power laws
laws pareto
pareto distributions
and zipfs
zipfs law
contemporary physics
using language
cambridge university
press cambridge
cambridge england
england uk
rader and
and r
collaborative tagging
tagging and
and information
information management
management influences
influences on
on tag
tag choices
choices in
working paper
paper university
university of
of michigan
clauset c
shalizi and
and m
powerlaw distributions
distributions in
in empirical
empirical data
degree of
of agreement
agreement in
in naming
naming objects
objects and
and concepts
concepts for
for information
information retrieval
jour r
wash and
and e
public bookmarks
bookmarks and
and private
private benefits
benefits an
an analysis
analysis of
of incentives
incentives in
in social
social comnal
comnal of
of the
the american
american society
society for
for information
information science
in asist
asist annual
annual meeting
