one ischools
ischools ideas
ideas and
and identity
identity doctoral
doctoral training
training and
and research
research at
mokros hartmut
hartmut b
rutgers university
one ischools
ischools ideas
ideas and
and identitydoctoral
identitydoctoral training
training and
and research
research at
the proposed
proposed paper
paper for
for presentation
presentation at
at the
the third
third iconference
iconference addresses
the nature
nature and
and scope
scope of
of ischools
ischools and
and iresearch
iresearch conference
conference theme
it addresses
addresses this
this theme
theme through
through report
report of
of an
an indepth
indepth case
case study
study of
of the
organizational social
social and
and intellectual
intellectual evolution
evolution of
of one
one early
early pioneer
in the
the ischool
ischool movement
movement the
the rutgers
rutgers university
university school
school of
of communication
information and
and library
library studies
studies scils
the paper
paper first
first situates
scils within
within the
the ischool
ischool movement
movement examining
examining its
its commonalities
commonalities with
with and
uniqueness from
from other
other members
members of
of the
the ischool
ischool caucus
thereafter the
paper focuses
focuses specifically
specifically on
on the
the evolution
evolution of
of doctoral
doctoral research
research and
training beginning
beginning with
with the
the programs
programs development
development as
as a
a disciplinary
lis program
program followed
followed by
by its
its transformation
transformation into
into an
an interdisciplinary
program with
with the
the multidisciplinary
multidisciplinary merger
merger that
that founded
founded scils
scils in
the paper
paper examines
examines the
the evolution
evolution of
of ideas
ideas developed
developed in
in dissertation
research produced
produced before
before and
and after
after the
the founding
founding of
of scils
interdisciplinary doctoral
doctoral program
program in
this includes
includes analysis
analysis of
the dissertation
dissertation produced
produced in
in the
the program
program from
from to
compares and
and contrasts
contrasts these
these periods
periods in
in terms
terms of
of ideas
ideas methods
methods and
and the
influence played
played by
by dissertation
dissertation supervisors
supervisors in
in all
finally it
examines the
the influence
influence of
of key
key organizational
organizational changes
changes on
on the
the perceived
identity of
of the
the school
school its
its relationship
relationship with
with external
external constituencies
and its
its intellectual
intellectual vision
vision into
into the
the future
of the
the nineteen
nineteen academic
academic units
units who
who are
are members
members of
of the
the ischool
ischool caucus
see table
table scils
scils is
is one
one of
of seventeen
seventeen to
to include
include information
information in
its name
name one
one of
of thirteen
thirteen to
to be
be identified
identified as
as a
a school
school within
within its
university one
one of
of five
five to
to include
include studies
studies in
in its
its name
name and
and one
one of
four to
to include
include library
library in
in its
its name
it is
is the
the only
only member
member school
with three
three disciplines
disciplines included
included in
in its
its name
name and
and also
also the
the only
only member
school within
within the
the ischool
ischool caucus
caucus to
to include
include communication
communication in
in its
the history
history of
of scils
scils doctoral
doctoral program
program dates
dates to
to the
the founding
founding of
of the
graduate school
school of
of library
library service
service gsls
gsls in
in with
with its
its first
doctorates granted
granted in
in see
see table
in the
the gsls
gsls changed
changed its
name to
to the
the graduate
graduate school
school of
of library
library and
and information
information studies
studies gslis
the schools
schools renaming
renaming occurred
occurred during
during a
a time
time rife
rife with
with uncertainty
during which
which phd
phd granting
granting library
library programs
programs throughout
throughout the
the country
country faced
serious institutional
institutional scrutiny
scrutiny and
and threat
threat of
of closure
the move
move to
delete service
service and
and replace
replace it
it with
with studies
studies promoted
promoted an
an image
of research
research rather
rather than
than advanced
advanced professional
professional training
training as
as the
the emphasis
of its
its doctoral
doctoral program
program with
with the
the adding
adding of
of information
information to
to the
schools name
name acknowledgment
acknowledgment of
of the
the every
every increasing
increasing relevance
relevance of
information and
and technology
technology for
for library
library education
education and
and research
five years
years of
of its
its renaming
renaming the
the school
school was
was radically
radically transformed
transformed through
demoted to
to departmental
departmental status
status the
the gslis
gslis faculty
faculty and
and masters
program joined
joined scils
scils along
along with
with the
the faculty
faculty and
and large
large undergraduate
programs of
of the
the department
department of
of communication
communication and
and the
the department
department of
journalism and
and mass
mass communication
the gslis
gslis doctoral
doctoral program
program continued
in operation
operation until
until at
at which
which time
time a
a new
new interdisciplinary
interdisciplinary curriculum
and new
new program
program name
name were
were adopted
the interdisciplinary
interdisciplinary program
program established
established in
in has
has gone
gone through
significant changes
changes in
in the
the years
years since
most significant
significant has
has been
been the
programs reorganization
reorganization from
from a
a five
five to
to a
a three
three area
area of
of specialization
model in
this change
change occurred
occurred shortly
shortly after
after two
two of
of the
the schools
three departments
departments modified
modified their
their departmental
departmental names
having removed
service in
in favor
favor of
of studies
studies in
in prior
prior to
to the
the merger
with scils
scils lis
lis now
now removed
removed studies
studies replacing
replacing it
it with
the change
change of
of name
name to
to the
the department
department of
of library
library and
information science
science acknowledged
acknowledged the
the departments
departments increasing
increasing intellectual
ties with
with and
and hires
hires of
of computer
computer science
science and
and engineering
engineering faculty
this same
same time
time with
with lis
lis moving
moving closer
closer to
to the
the physical
physical sciences
journalism shifted
shifted its
its future
future toward
toward the
the humanities
humanities and
and away
away from
from the
social sciences
sciences symbolically
symbolically expressed
expressed through
through the
the erasure
erasure of
of mass
communication from
from its
its departmental
departmental in
in favor
favor of
of media
media studies
although communication
communication did
did not
not pursue
pursue a
a change
change of
of name
name for
for its
department it
it greatly
greatly focused
focused its
its curriculum
curriculum research
research and
and hiring
around three
three areas
areas social
social interaction
interaction organizational
organizational communication
and mediated
mediated communication
communication focusing
focusing especially
especially on
on the
the development
development of
strength in
in health
health communication
communication linked
linked to
to these
these areas
the proposal
and adoption
adoption of
of a
a new
new three
three area
area model
model for
for the
the phd
phd program
program further
supported a
a rising
rising sense
sense of
of departmental
departmental autonomy
autonomy in
in pursuit
pursuit of
of research
and the
the training
training of
of doctoral
doctoral students
the new
new model
model aligned
aligned each
each of
the schools
schools three
three departments
departments with
with one
one area
area within
within the
the program
communication processes
processes library
library and
and information
information science
science and
and media
in the
the years
years since
since the
the adoption
adoption of
of the
the three
three area
area model
model has
has scils
doctoral program
program has
has been
been remarkable
remarkable productive
productive in
in its
its inclusion
inclusion of
of new
faculty supervisors
supervisors and
and in
in the
the number
number of
of dissertations
dissertations completed
completed annual
and yet
yet despite
despite its
its productivity
productivity old
old tensions
tensions have
have emerged
tensions reveal
reveal the
the conundrums
conundrums faced
faced by
by a
a multidisciplinary
multidisciplinary school
school whose
disciplinary pulls
pulls and
and alternative
alternative interdisciplinary
interdisciplinary partnerships
partnerships have
begun to
to offer
offer more
more attraction
attraction and
and reward
reward than
than another
another round
round of
collective sense
sense making
making to
to secure
secure the
the commons
commons of
of an
an identity
