privacy and
and participation
participation in
in ubiquitous
ubiquitous information
information systems
information ethics
ethics when
when mobile
mobile phones
phones are
are sensors
ubiquitious information
information systems
systems hold
hold increasing
increasing promise
promise for
for widespread
widespread participation
participation in
in data
collection and
and dissemination
common and
and abundant
abundant devices
devices such
such as
as mobile
mobile phones
phones can
sense and
and record
record data
data such
such as
as location
location sound
sound and
and images
these systems
systems can
can facilitate
community participation
participation in
in basic
basic and
and applied
applied research
research improvement
improvement of
of quality
quality of
of life
life social
change selfreflection
selfreflection and
and creative
creative expression
but the
the design
design and
and use
use of
of these
these tools
tools also
also pose
new challenges
challenges for
for privacy
privacy data
data security
security and
and ethics
this paper
paper explores
explores responsible
responsible approaches
approaches to
to the
the design
design of
of systems
systems for
for ubiquitous
ubiquitous digital
the authors
authors include
include an
an information
information studies
studies researcher
researcher working
working alongside
alongside computer
scientists and
and engineers
engineers from
from the
the center
center for
for embedded
embedded networked
networked sensing
sensing cens
ongoing partnership
partnership pairs
pairs ethical
ethical frameworks
frameworks developed
developed within
within information
information studies
studies and
science and
and technology
technology studies
studies with
with system
system design
design expertise
expertise and
and concrete
concrete realworld
for example
example cens
cens is
is developing
developing a
a platform
platform to
to share
share activity
activity inferences
inferences generated
with geospatial
geospatial data
data from
from mobile
mobile phones
phones to
to assess
assess personal
personal environmental
environmental impact
cens is
also exploring
exploring systems
systems for
for capturing
capturing and
and sharing
sharing data
data about
about neighborhood
neighborhood walkability
walkability and
other community
community assets
the ongoing
ongoing research
research detailed
detailed in
in this
this paper
paper investigates
investigates how
how such
ubiquitous sensing
sensing projects
projects can
can conscientiously
conscientiously collect
collect personal
personal data
data for
for social
social science
science and
participatory research
research applications
previous research
research has
has proposed
proposed a
a variety
variety of
of technical
approaches to
to privacy
privacy protection
protection in
in a
a world
world of
of increasing
information capture
these include
include encryption
encryption privacyenhancing
privacyenhancing technologies
technologies pets
pets and
and statistical
statistical anonymization
anonymization of
data burkert
while these
these approaches
approaches to
to privacy
protection are
are important
important in
in humanembedded
humanembedded sensing
sensing systems
we argue
argue that
that privacy
privacy requirements
requirements for
for networks
networks of
of sensitive
personal data
data extend
extend beyond
beyond such
such measures
figure a
a cens
cens project
project tracks
and shares
shares users
users movements
individuals experience
experience privacy
privacy as
as a
a fluid
fluid concept
concerns extend
extend beyond
beyond anonymity
anonymity or
or data
data protection
protection privacy
can be
be a
a process
process of
of regulating
regulating boundaries
boundaries or
or a
a method
method of
portraying particular
particular personal
personal identities
identities palen
palen dourish
privacy expectations
expectations are
are shaped
shaped by
by social
social conventions
waldo lin
lin millett
millett and
and by
by places
places and
and spaces
spaces of
of data
capture cohen
individuals may
may feel
feel threats
threats to
to privacy
during data
data collection
collection during
during data
data sharing
sharing or
or if
if data
data remains
accessible indefinitely
designing for
for privacy
privacy and
and participation
this paper
paper details
details design
design considerations
considerations and
and practices
practices that
that promote
promote a
a balance
balance between
participation and
and privacy
an interdisciplinary
interdisciplinary team
team hosted
hosted by
by cens
cens has
has iterativly
iterativly developed
design principles
principles that
that respect
respect a
a multifaceted
multifaceted defininition
defininition of
of personal
personal and
and social
social privacy
paper will
will detail
detail design
design guidelines
guidelines such
such as
as targeted
targeted capture
capture data
data retention
retention policy
policy and
and methods
for identification
identification of
of privacy
privacy pressure
pressure points
points in
in a
ubiquitous information
information system
it will
will emphasise
techniques for
for responsive
responsive system
system design
design based
based upon
userspecified privacy
privacy needs
finally we
we will
emphasize participation
participation over
over restriction
restriction as
as a
a response
to privacy
privacy ethics
we argue
argue that
that by
by finding
finding a
a balance
between privacy
privacy and
and participation
participation embedded
embedded network
sensing systems
systems can
can reach
reach their
their research
empowerment and
and documentary
documentary potential
potential while
respecting participant
participant privacy
privacy concerns
figure cens
cens interns
interns participate
participate in
in cooperative
cooperative data
gathering and
and analysis
burkert h
privacyenhancing technologies
technologies typology
typology critique
critique vision
in p
rotenberg eds
technology and
and privacy
privacy the
the new
new landscape
landscape pp
cambridge ma
ma and
and london
london the
the mit
mit press
cohen j
privacy visibility
visibility transparency
transparency and
and exposure
university of
of chicago
chicago law
friedman b
kahn jr
hagman j
severson r
the watcher
watcher and
and the
watched social
social judgements
judgements about
about privacy
privacy in
in a
a public
public place
humancomputer interaction
palen l
dourish p
unpacking privacy
privacy for
for a
a networked
networked world
proceedings of
of chi
chi ft
lauderdale fl
fl acm
waldo j
lin h
millett l
engaging privacy
privacy and
and information
information technology
technology in
in a
a digital
washington d
the national
national academies
academies press
